(1999) suggest transitions are frequent in technical scientific writing, while Hyland (2005) suggests they are more frequent in the discursive writing of the soft disciplines. Our study contributes to both these areas with evidence from a contrastive analysis of transition use by Chinese and English writers in the Han CH-EN corpus, a closely matched corpus of successful university student writing in English.A frequency comparison of transition use by Chinese and English writers finds no significant difference for most transitions. The transition used most often by both groups is however, which is examined across contexts. English writers use however significantly more than Chinese writers, but only in a small number of disciplines, genres and sentence positions. An examination of the literacy practices in these contexts suggests that terms such as ‘overuse’ and ‘underuse’ with their negative connotations should only be used when frequency data is combined with investigations of appropriate use in context. Examples are forms of code glosses similar to reformulations that help readers understand writers' intended meanings (Hyland, 2007) and contribute to the process of argumentation in texts (Triki, 2017). This paper investigates examples in research articles across the so-called soft and hard disciplines and aims to structurally and semantically explore the link between the building units of examples and how they could constrain the choices made across disciplines. To reach this end, the study investigates examples in a corpus of 80 research articles that cover four disciplines in the ‘soft’ sciences and four disciplines in the ‘hard’ sciences. Annotation was based on an automatic search of potential candidates then a manual annotation was performed using the UAM Corpus Tool (O'Donnell, 2008). Results suggest that (1) the structural features of exemplified units impose constraints on the choice of markers and exemplifying units (2) exemplifying clauses are more elaborative than exemplifying nominal groups and (3) the equivalence between the units exemplified and those exemplifying seems to be governed by the degree to which exemplifying units are expanding or compacting.