The findings indicate that elements of self-directedness (e.g., self-regulation, agency, and autonomy) are increasingly prevalent in researchers’ conceptualizations over time. The findings also highlight trends in language related to self-directedness, especially in the way strategies are portrayed to be operationalized by learners and in their intended purpose(s). Based on our findings, we argue for a change in thinking—from the ideal to the actual—in LLS conceptualizations and call for reconceptualized roles of teachers and students that are more representative of and compatible with instructed language learning contexts. This study identifies the research trends of ‘trans-’ studies on writing by analyzing 165 journal articles from a bibliometric approach. The corpus consists of peer-reviewed journal articles published from 2011 to 2020, during which ‘trans-’ studies on writing experienced rapid development in its conceptualization and implementation. Our analysis concentrates on (1) the most highly cited authors and articles and (2) the most frequently discussed concepts and their changes over the past decade. The results reveal that translingual practice, a concept that is mainly developed by Suresh Canagarajah (2013a, 2013b, 2015, 2018), has been increasingly adopted to illustrate language practices in writing processes. Other concepts, such as translingual approach, spatial repertoires, translanguaging, and translingualism, have also been widely discussed in writing studies, which corroborates the central principles of ‘trans-’ studies on writing. With this growing interest, ‘trans-’ principles have been increasingly enacted in writing practices, which has been reflected in the increasing use of the word combinations, such as translingual pedagogy, translanguaging pedagogy, and translanguaging space. The results also show that some terms, such as translingual writing, code-switching, code-meshing, and monolingualism, have been decreasingly discussed due to some misunderstandings of those terms and the relatively stable conceptualization of ‘trans-’ terms.