Despite a growing acknowledgement of the value of play in language learning, it play has received little attention in second language writing. This paper explores the potential value of play in the context of academic second language writing, with a specific interest in its implications for instruction. I begin by defining play and its role in human behavior more generally and reviewing the more specific role of language play in second language development. I next turn to examining the potential value of play (including language play and genre play) in academic writing, drawing on relevant research. Finally, I consider how we might help create second language writing classrooms that foster opportunities for play, and I conclude with potential directions for future research. The study aimed (a) to estimate the overall average effect size of the relationship between writing self-efficacy and writing achievement for first language (L1) and second language (L2) writers in English; and (b) to examine how writing in English as a L1/L2 moderates the relationships based on a meta-analysis of published journal articles and dissertations/theses. Data included 565 effect sizes from 76 studies through a rigorous process of literature searches, screening, and data coding. A two-level meta-regression model was constructed to estimate the average effect size and to examine the moderating effects of the covariates. Results revealed a medium effect size (r = .29) with both L1 and L2 writers, which indicated approximately 9% of the variability in English writing achievement was associated with variability in students’ self-efficacy. Furthermore, writing in English as a L1/L2 was found to moderate the relationship between writing self-efficacy and writing achievement, with the effect size estimated with L2 learners (r = .441) being statistically significantly larger than that yielded with L1 learners (r = .233), after controlling for the covariates of sample size, gender, grade, statistical procedures, and publication type.