Lastly, P-burst length was related only to the number of words per minute. Overall, this study revealed more nuanced relationships among cognitive and linguistic resources, writing processes, and writing products in undergraduate L2 writing. This study attempts to address the “teacher expertise gap” in L2 writing research, using “adaptive expertise” as a specific tool for understanding the notion of writing teacher expertise. Drawing upon language teacher education research and L2 writing research, and using teacher interviews and classroom observation as data sources, the study explores the expertise of three writing teachers from different schools in Hong Kong, as well as the factors that may have contributed to their expertise. The findings of the study show six key components of teacher expertise as demonstrated in the participating teachers, comprising integrated knowledge base about writing and teaching writing; student-centred pedagogy focusing on learner motivation and confidence building; professional visions, self-agency, and reflectivity; leadership in writing innovations; passion as teachers of writing and as writers; and ongoing teacher learning and progressive problem solving as pivotal to writing teacher expertise. The study suggests the rich, dynamic, and contextual nature of writing teacher expertise, which is influenced by teachers’ cognitive engagements, social interactions, and affective experiences in their situated contexts. The paper concludes with implications for the teaching of writing and writing teacher education. Informed by a reflective practice perspective on teacher learning, this study investigates the learning experiences of L2 writing teachers in providing feedback on students’ writing. Drawing on multiple sources of data from 27 English writing teachers in Chinese universities, the study reveals that giving feedback on student writing can be a learning experience for most L2 writing teachers and challenges the mainstream discourse that portrays teachers’ feedback-giving as a burdensome and unrewarding task. While some participants did not see the learning opportunities in giving teacher feedback due to their students’ limited writing proficiency, large class size, and time constraints, the majority of teachers believed that giving feedback could improve their feedback literacy and feedback practices and enable teachers to: gain a better understanding of the students and their writing problems; improve their instructional approaches; enhance their own writing proficiency; and obtain knowledge in other disciplines, as well as identify topics for research on L2 writing.