Results revealed a medium effect size (r = .29) with both L1 and L2 writers, which indicated approximately 9% of the variability in English writing achievement was associated with variability in students’ self-efficacy. Furthermore, writing in English as a L1/L2 was found to moderate the relationship between writing self-efficacy and writing achievement, with the effect size estimated with L2 learners (r = .441) being statistically significantly larger than that yielded with L1 learners (r = .233), after controlling for the covariates of sample size, gender, grade, statistical procedures, and publication type. Results also revealed that statistical procedure moderated effect size estimates. This meta-analysis has practical implications for heightening the awareness of English teachers in developing L2 students’ self-efficacy in the writing classroom setting. It also cautions researchers against the misinterpretation and misuse of effect sizes calculated by different statistical procedures. Fueled by a keen awareness of the affordances of technology and the predominance of the communicative approach, computer-mediated collaborative writing (CMCW) has gained fast-growing interest in second language (L2) contexts. To illuminate research foci and guide future research efforts in this burgeoning area, the current study provided a substantive and methodological review of 113 primary studies on CMCW in L2 contexts, covering qualitative, quantitative, and mixed-methods research. Each study was coded for substantive features, including research context, study setup, components analyzed, and the analytic frameworks. We also coded the sample for methodological practices that were applicable to all research (e.g., instrument development, reliability estimates) and those related to a specific research orientation (e.g., use of statistical analyses, validity strategies). The results indicated (a) a strong preference for meaning-focused writing tasks covering various genres, (b) considerable heterogeneity in the metrics for measuring texts, (c) limited interests in L2 learners’ attention to form.