To further understand the role of individual differences in second language (L2) writing, this study investigated how motivation and emotions influence L2 writing achievement. More specifically, it examined how students’ L2 writing future selves (i.e., ideal L2 writing self representing their aspirations, and ought L2 writing self representing their obligations) lead to qualitatively different emotions (anxiety and enjoyment), and how the future selves both directly and indirectly through anxiety and enjoyment affect L2 writing achievement. Questionnaire scales were developed using qualitative data to measure L2 writing selves. The new scales along with existing scales for examining L2 writing anxiety, joy, and motivation, were administered to 85 university students learning English as a Foreign Language (EFL) at a private university in Iran. Multiple regression results showed that the ideal L2 writing self positively predicted L2 writing joy, motivation, and achievement, whereas ought L2 writing self positively predicted L2 writing anxiety and motivation; L2 writing joy and anxiety both predicted L2 writing motivation positively; L2 writing anxiety predicted L2 writing achievement negatively but L2 joy did not. Overall, the findings highlight the qualitative differences in students’ motivation and emotions in L2 writing achievement. This study investigated whether the effects of working memory on second language (L2) writing performance depend upon the level of L2 proficiency. Fifty-six learners of L2 English at different levels of proficiency performed a complex working memory task in their native language (Spanish/Catalan), a standardized L2 proficiency test, and a narrative L2 writing task. L2 writing performance was assessed by means of the quantitative measures of accuracy, complexity, and fluency, and by means of holistic ratings of writing quality. The results showed that at low levels of proficiency, working memory was associated with higher accuracy, while at high levels of proficiency, there was a positive link between working memory and lexical sophistication.