These conclusions may serve to inform EMI policy and curriculum design by reconciling instructors' perceptions with the reality of their students’ linguistic proficiency and learning needs. If-constructions, with functional versatility, are of great importance to academic writing. While considerable literature has been published on If-constructions in research articles and naturally occurring discourse, relatively limited attention has been paid to how If-constructions are used in L2 learners' academic writing. To address this gap, a comparative study on the use of If-constructions is reported in this paper with regard to the overall distribution and meaning negotiation in corpora of Chinese L2 learners' theses and published research articles in applied linguistics. We draw upon Warchał's (2010) typology of conditional clauses and Martin and White's (2005) notion on writer-reader meaning negotiation and examine propositional and pragmatic meanings, monoglossic and heteroglossic If-constructions used in the corpora. We also discuss the major reasons for the differences and similarities in the overall distribution and meaning negotiation. From this case study, we conclude that If-constructions are one of the key options from the academic writers' rhetorical toolkit, allowing them to make propositional and pragmatic meanings and to negotiate a dialogic space in academic discourse. In this paper we focus on teachers' use of discourse functions as transmitters and builders of content knowledge in the context of English-medium instruction (EMI) at the university level. Couched within the construct of Cognitive Discourse Function (CDF) (Dalton-Puffer, 2016), we analyze 6 two-hour lessons delivered by three lecturers in history. In line with the competences set out by the Spanish Ministry and the Department of History at the University of the Basque Country (Spain) for the history degree, this analysis allows us to examine how cognitive functions are operationalized in real classroom language.