Finally, the findings are discussed as they relate to simplified versus elaborative integration of source material in student writing. Previous research on comprehensive/focused written corrective feedback (WCF) has been dominated by the experimental/quasi-experimental tradition, with low ecological validity and limited pedagogical relevance, and without sufficiently recognizing the complex issues that influence teacher WCF practices in authentic classrooms. To fill this gap, this study adopts an ecological approach informed by a complexity perspective to investigate two secondary teachers’ attempts at focused WCF in the Hong Kong EFL writing context. Data were gathered for one academic year from interviews with teachers and students, classroom observations, students’ writing, as well as pre-and post-writing tests. The findings suggest that focused WCF is feasible in authentic classrooms when it is aligned with writing instruction and provided on preselected error types and selective errors based on individual students’ needs, providing an impetus for teachers to strengthen their writing pedagogy and freeing them up to enhance feedback on other areas of student writing. The study points to the potential of focused, student-specific WCF in enhancing written accuracy as well as students’ engagement with revision, and concludes with implications for the pedagogy of WCF in similar contexts. Recently, scholars have begun to adopt metacognition theory as a lens for understanding how learners’ genre awareness develops over time. However, many of such studies have tended to focus on contexts involving applied linguistics training programs or English for Academic Purposes rather than professional contexts where writers are learning non-academic genres. Adopting a longitudinal case study design, the researcher investigated this issue by following six L2 English students as they learned to write a professional legal genre called the office memorandum as a part of their legal education program. Using metacognition theory as a lens, the researcher examined the focal students’ emerging metacognitive genre awareness, the domains in which they developed that awareness, and finally, how that awareness differed among individual students.