Based on a 3MT corpus of 80 presentations from six disciplines, the results show that stance markers are more often used than listener engagement markers, while explicit mentions of self and listeners are the most common features. Additionally, presenters in the hard sciences, compared to those in soft-knowledge fields, make more use of the interactional features, but rhetorical questions are more frequently used in the soft knowledge fields. Therefore, we see this nuanced use of stance and engagement as related to the rhetorical contexts of register, genre and disciplinary propositional content. Pedagogical implications raised include developing students’ ability in the popularisation of science and their raising their awareness of disciplinary knowledge and its social relevance. This paper seeks to problematise the concept of finding information in EAP (English for Academic Purposes) writing programs. Drawing on the experiences of a group of female Emirati undergraduate students in an academic writing class in the United Arab Emirates, the paper argues that the act of finding information is not straightforward or universal, but is a social construction. Through the theoretical lens of activity theory (Engeström, 1987; Leont'ev, 1981/2009), the paper presents the view that information is constructed as a goal oriented, socially situated activity mediated by physical and symbolic artefacts. The present study examined the types of mediating artefacts students used as they constructed information and the tensions and contradictions they experienced as they did so. Data collected via screen capture recordings, student reflections and interviews suggested that students constructed information by drawing on Discourses of being proficient Internet users, local Discourses of truth and the norms and assumptions underpinning the academic writing class they were enrolled in. The findings of the study are significant in shaping the reading-to-write processes and practices of EAP writing pedagogy.