In this article, I propose the idea of public applied linguistics: that is, a type of applied linguistics that sees applied linguists doing the work of activism, with language activists, in the public, are (i) invested in the artistic representation of linkages between language reinvention and new relationalities, and (ii) highlighting, documenting and framing interventionist debates around language. Public applied linguists encounter, discourse with ‘language technicians’, expert-like language activists working with new visions of language on the periphery of post-apartheid South Africa, to think language otherwise and as a critical historical process, continually reinvented through the unique, creative, and dynamic practices of multilingualism to attain linguistic justice. The present study investigated the developmental patterns of Chinese EFL(AQ) learners’ oral language in terms of complexity and accuracy and looked into the dynamic interactions between them within the framework of Complex Dynamic Systems Theory (CDST). The data were analysed using dynamic analyses (moving min–max graphs, moving correlations and Monte Carlo Simulations). It was found that, firstly, at the group level, the general developmental trends of both complexity and accuracy showed improvements. Secondly, at the individual level, the developmental patterns were non-linear and dynamic with high degrees of variability, and individual language development was influenced by the initial states. Thirdly, the analyses revealed a complex interplay between complexity and accuracy, which gradually shifted from a clearly competitive relationship during the early stages to a supportive relationship in later stages. This shift in interaction shows that complexity goes hand in hand with accuracy, which corroborates the interconnectedness of subsystems as one of the major characteristics of CDST. The findings confirm the applicability of CDST approaches to L2 oral development and carry valuable implications for CDST theory development and oral language teaching. Changing demography in the Southwest USA has shifted the racial compositions of many neighborhoods that were once predominantly African American to majority Latinx immigrant communities (Orfield and Frankenberg 2014).