Apart from their various functions, research in the field has uncovered a range of contextual and individual factors associated with the use of formulaic sequences, including genre, discipline, and the user's L1 as well as expertise level. However, most previous studies focus on written discourse and employ a frequency-based approach (e.g., lexical bundles, n-grams). The inherent limitations of the approach are of particular relevance to ELF communication, which involves a high degree of flexibility adaptability. The present study aims to explore features of formulaicity in spoken ELF academic discourse. Through a close examination of the phraseological patterns of one verb say in a one-million-word corpus of spoken ELF communication in academic settings, the present study is able to overcome some of the limitations of the frequency approach, thereby shedding further light on formulaicity in language use characterising this particular community and its relationship with factors such as event type, discipline, and individual preference. Over the past two decades, Japan's Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) has pursued the internationalization of the nation's universities, enticing students from overseas through English-medium instruction (EMI) degree programs, that simultaneously aim to nurture Japanese students with global skills. The development of critical thinking (CT), is a stated aim of many such programs, yet CT has been a contested concept in Japanese education, while student understandings of CT differ in a diversified student body. Here, Q-methodology is utilized to investigate views of CT among Japanese and international students in EMI programs. 39 students who had completed CT courses at two national universities ranked statements describing the qualities of a critical thinker. Through factor analysis, four distinct views of CT emerged: two of which were highly favoured by Japanese students; two others by international students.