Based on a critical review of diversity management literature and a study on Korean managers working for non-Korean MNCs in Singapore, I first show how diversity management’s claim of openness and inclusivity actually works to reproduce unequal relations in the workplace. I then argue that attention to the politics of translation, where the ideological nature of evaluations of cultural (in)commensurability is highlighted, is needed for applied linguists’ engagement with language and communication in the multicultural workplace. This article argues that a new form of globalizing multilingualism, which I call ‘supralingualism’, has been afoot since 1990, when the rise of algorithmic translation and cross-linguistic information retrieval (CLIR) practices set in in earnest in the supply-side logistics industries. A political landscape characterized by international consensus and compliance in the 1990s (as opposed to tariff wars and logistical nationalism) further buttressed this new ideology, leading to a newly multilingual centripetality in the global management of meaning. Based on historical examples and evidence from computational engineering, this article tracks the extraordinary growth of this sector and its implications for other arenas of language practice, implications that include: monolingualization, securitization, dehistoricization, lexicaliztation, and the reduction of ‘culture’ to its most overt linguistic forms. In 1988 and 2006, Applied Linguistics published Low’s and Littlemore and Low’s seminal theoretical accounts of second language (L2) metaphoric competence (MC). Meanwhile, attempts to elicit metaphor-related skills/competences have been mixed. Instrumentation has varied in reliability, been limited in scope, and used arguably flawed reliability coefficients (McNeish 2018). Factor analysis, used in first language (L1) MC and other areas of L2 research (Loewen et al. 2009; Plonsky and Gonulal 2015), has not been used to explore latent L2 MC variables.