Figure legends, a descriptive statement accompanying a graph, is an essential component of science writing, and novice writers often find it difficult to write an adequate and plausible one. However, almost no discourse analysis has been done of this short yet important part of research articles. Taking a corpus-driven approach, this study explores the use of keywords and lexical bundles in figure legends in order to understand how the discourse is constructed by the salient recurrent single and multiple lexical items. Results show that in figure legends writers are most concerned with the textual descriptions of blue and red as markers of contrasting scientific items and bars and images as representative of graphic shapes. Additionally, writers also frequently use shown and indicated to introduce the demonstrative relationship between graphic elements and scientific information. Further, noun/prepositional bundles account for the overwhelming proportion, followed by verb-related and then clause-related forms, while research-oriented functions of bundles are more frequently used than text and participant-oriented functions. The results offer useful pedagogical input and help novice and L2 writers come to grips with this part-genre.

Lecture comprehension is a complex process that involves the decoding of meanings on various levels (e.g., phonological, lexical, syntactic, pragmatic, cultural), thus creating challenges for L2 learners. Moreover, there may be difficulties caused by unfamiliar prosodic patterns or accents of lecturers, as well as facial expressions and gesturing whose meanings may escape L2 students. To address all of these potential obstacles, lecture comprehension activities should implement materials prepared from authentic classroom lectures to provide L2 learners with realistic input, which may also vary according to instructional context.
The aim of this article is to illustrate how video-recorded lectures can be analysed to gain insights into their multifaceted nature and how the findings can be used to inform classroom activities to improve lecture comprehension. The article provides 1) a description of how video clips cut from OpenCourseWare lectures can be prepared for research and practice, 2) an overview of two case studies performed on video clips that highlight the use of multimodal ensembles integrating verbal and non-verbal features (e.g., idioms, humour, stance markers, culture-specific references, prosodic patterns, gesturing), and 3) a detailed lesson plan to exemplify how video clips from OCW lectures can be used to facilitate lecture comprehension.

EAP courses by their very nature are designed to help students understand and engage with academic language. Yet what if EAP practices are too far removed from academic discourse that their relevance is compromised? For better or worse, EAP teachers in Content & Language Integrated Learning (CLIL) environments often draw on EAL grammar resources to supplement the development of their situated, content-reliant teaching resources (Harwood, 2005; Lorenzo, 2013). Unfortunately, typical form-focused grammar instruction that relies on idealized, formula c structures can result in EAP lessons glossing over crucial concepts in students  authentic course readings. In this article, we recount our teaching context and the realization of the gap between traditional teaching and grammar reference texts, and the instantiations of various forms of conditional language in authentic academic texts across first year university Political Science, Psychology, Physics and Economics courses. We explore the importance of conditionals and how they are typically presented; the phenomena of grammatical and logical metaphor; and suggest pedagogical activities to facilitate students  comprehension, application and manipulation of conditional logic in their academic work.

This article presents the Computer Science Academic Vocabulary List (CSAVL), a pedagogical tool intended for use by English-for-specific-purpose educators and material developers. A 3.5-million-word corpus of academic computer science texts was developed in order to produce the CSAVL. The CSAVL draws from the improved methodologies used in the creation of recent lemma-based word lists such as the Academic Vocabulary List (AVL) (Gardner & Davies, 2014) and the Medical Academic Vocabulary List (MAVL) (Lei & Liu, 2016), which take into account the discipline-specific meanings of academic vocabulary. The CSAVL provides specific information for each entry, including part of speech and CS-specific meanings in order to provide users with clues as to how each item is used within the context of academic CS. Based on the analyses performed in this study, the CSAVL was found to be a more efficient tool for reaching an minimal level of academic CS reading comprehension than the Academic Word List (AWL) (Coxhead, 2000), or the combination of the AWL with the Computer Science Word List (CSWL) (Minshall, 2013).

Formulaic sequences (e.g., on the other hand, for example, as can be seen) are prevalent in academic discourse. Apart from their various functions, research in the field has uncovered a range of contextual and individual factors associated with the use of formulaic sequences, including genre, discipline, and the user's L1 as well as expertise level. However, most previous studies focus on written discourse and employ a frequency-based approach (e.g., lexical bundles, n-grams). The inherent limitations of the approach are of particular relevance to ELF communication, which involves a high degree of flexibility adaptability. The present study aims to explore features of formulaicity in spoken ELF academic discourse. Through a close examination of the phraseological patterns of one verb say in a one-million-word corpus of spoken ELF communication in academic settings, the present study is able to overcome some of the limitations of the frequency approach, thereby shedding further light on formulaicity in language use characterising this particular community and its relationship with factors such as event type, discipline, and individual preference.

Over the past two decades, Japan's Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) has pursued the internationalization of the nation's universities, enticing students from overseas through English-medium instruction (EMI) degree programs, that simultaneously aim to nurture Japanese students with global skills. The development of critical thinking (CT), is a stated aim of many such programs, yet CT has been a contested concept in Japanese education, while student understandings of CT differ in a diversified student body. Here, Q-methodology is utilized to investigate views of CT among Japanese and international students in EMI programs. 39 students who had completed CT courses at two national universities ranked statements describing the qualities of a critical thinker. Through factor analysis, four distinct views of CT emerged: two of which were highly favoured by Japanese students; two others by international students. Japanese students accentuated perspective taking, flexibility, listening to others, and reflexivity as essential qualities of a critical thinker, while international students valued logical argumentation, and evidence analysis. While this could be attributed to socio-cultural or pedagogical differences, it also provides impetus to explore the complex range of influences on students' identity construction within EMI programs.

Research on the frequency of transitions, or transition markers, has led to contested claims. Comparisons by L1 speaker (e.g. Leedham, 2015; Lei, 2012) argue that Chinese writers overuse and underuse certain transitions when compared to L1 English writers. Moreover, Biber et al. (1999) suggest transitions are frequent in technical scientific writing, while Hyland (2005) suggests they are more frequent in the discursive writing of the soft disciplines. Our study contributes to both these areas with evidence from a contrastive analysis of transition use by Chinese and English writers in the Han CH-EN corpus, a closely matched corpus of successful university student writing in English.A frequency comparison of transition use by Chinese and English writers finds no significant difference for most transitions. The transition used most often by both groups is however, which is examined across contexts. English writers use however significantly more than Chinese writers, but only in a small number of disciplines, genres and sentence positions. An examination of the literacy practices in these contexts suggests that terms such as  overuse  and  underuse  with their negative connotations should only be used when frequency data is combined with investigations of appropriate use in context.

Examples are forms of code glosses similar to reformulations that help readers understand writers' intended meanings (Hyland, 2007) and contribute to the process of argumentation in texts (Triki, 2017). This paper investigates examples in research articles across the so-called soft and hard disciplines and aims to structurally and semantically explore the link between the building units of examples and how they could constrain the choices made across disciplines. To reach this end, the study investigates examples in a corpus of 80 research articles that cover four disciplines in the  soft  sciences and four disciplines in the  hard  sciences. Annotation was based on an automatic search of potential candidates then a manual annotation was performed using the UAM Corpus Tool (O'Donnell, 2008). Results suggest that (1) the structural features of exemplified units impose constraints on the choice of markers and exemplifying units (2) exemplifying clauses are more elaborative than exemplifying nominal groups and (3) the equivalence between the units exemplified and those exemplifying seems to be governed by the degree to which exemplifying units are expanding or compacting. The main conclusion is that the soft-hard distinction between academic disciplines is not always the major parameter triggering writers' choices.

Much research has been conducted on the effects of written corrective feedback (WCF) in L2 studies. Unfortunately, the effects of comprehensive WCF in Chinese EAP contexts have been insufficiently documented. Given the significance of WCF in developing EFL students' EAP skills, we employed a mixed-methods approach to bridge this gap. Adopting a quasi-experimental design, this study was implemented in two intact university English classes, with a treatment group receiving four rounds of comprehensive WCF, while no feedback was offered to a comparison group. The posttest and delayed posttest results revealed that such WCF helped the treatment group improve their writing accuracy and fluency statistically significantly and retain the positive effects in the delayed posttest, while it did not enhance their syntactic complexity. The comparison group did not statistically significantly improve their writing accuracy, syntactic complexity, or fluency. To elicit participants  perceptions of comprehensive WCF effects on their linguistic performance, we administered a follow-up open-ended questionnaire with all the treatment-group participants after the posttest. The qualitative findings generally echoed and shed light on the quantitative results. We conclude our study with a discussion of its implications.

In this  Researching EAP Practice!  paper, I reflect on the experience of embedding learner-initiated enquiry into an in-sessional EAP course and argue that the process can be viewed as a continuous exploration of learners  needs. First, I explain the rationale for adopting Exploratory Practice (EP)-a form of practitioner research-to position EAP undergraduates at a UK university as learner-researchers. I then reveal why our EAP team harnessed EP s central process of  puzzling  to develop personalised research agendas and encourage student engagement, practitioner collaboration and novel learning. Finally, I outline how academic and practitioner research in EAP combined with our professional development experiences shaped the approach taken. I gathered a range of qualitative data, observing learners as they puzzled, analysing written summaries of their puzzles and cross-referencing these with my own reflective journal entries. This integration of research and pedagogy created several synergies: Through puzzling, learners better understood their academic journeys, and some highlighted the transferable potential of puzzling. The teaching team also benefited as we began to view learner-initiated puzzling as a continuous exploration, illumination and assessment of learners  needs. This paper offers a practitioner s perspective on continuous needs assessment with insights for EAP lecturers and those in adjacent fields.

While previous research on syntactic complexity development in academic writing recommends incorporating instruction on complex noun phrases into L2 writing curricula, little is known about the effects of such teaching. Therefore, this study examined writing by undergraduate students enrolled in L2 writing courses to determine whether explicit teaching of complex noun phrases could lead to more register-appropriate use of these features. Specifically, this research compared diagnostic and final in-class writing produced by 30 students who received explicit noun phrase instruction and also conducted a separate analysis of 30 papers by writers who did not experience such teaching. Since prompts were found to be a mediating factor in previous research, this variable was also considered in the analysis. The results demonstrate that while both groups displayed patterns of development, targeted instruction led to more frequent use of complex noun phrases in general and of noun phrase modifiers associated with advanced stages of syntactic complexity development. Additionally, while prompts had an effect on some noun phrase features, overall trends in development remained unchanged. These findings support claims from previous research that explicit teaching of complex noun phrases may benefit writers  syntactic complexity development.

Due to the paucity of attention to research article (RA) abstracts, particularly from a diachronic perspective, this study investigates the changes in the representation of authorial presence through first person pronouns in RA abstracts, with data sampled from four applied linguistics journals between 1990 and 2019. The findings indicate that the representation of authorial presence tends to be shaped by the number of authors. Overall, co-authors intrude into their abstracts more frequently than single authors. In the most recent two decades, single authors are inclined to project their author persona as individuals. However, in the 2010s, both types of authors tend to conceal their presence in abstracts through less frequent use of personal pronouns. The two overwhelmingly recurrent pronouns we and I performed eight discourse functions, among which low-stakes ones (functions that run relatively low risk of exposing authors to readers  attacks or challenges) have been favored over high-stakes ones (functions that run relatively high risk of exposing authors to readers  attacks or challenges). The most recurrent low-stakes function of  Organize the text  and  Describe methods  both exhibit significant diachronic variations in their occurrence in co-authored abstracts, with the former overall increasing while the latter steadily declining. However, no significant variations are observed in the occurrence of these two low-stakes functions in single-authored abstracts. The dominant high-stakes function  State opinions  displays opposite diachronic patterns in its incidence in co-authored and single-authored abstracts -- downward and upward respectively.

Plagiarism is a complex issue, torn between theory and practice, expectation and reality, and developmental and ethical concerns. However, in terms of student/teacher perceptions and practices, most plagiarism research has focused on English as a second/foreign language (ESL/EFL) settings, with little to no research into English medium instruction (EMI) in non-Western locales. Therefore, using a combination of Likert scale items, agree/disagree statements, and open-ended questions, we sampled 395 Thai undergraduates and 46 lecturers on their attitudes, beliefs, understandings, and exposure to plagiarism in EMI programs. We also examined the institutional policies of their universities for definitions and punishments related to plagiarism. Results showed that both groups framed plagiarism as ethically wrong and broadly understood what constituted plagiarism. However, there was a clear disconnect between institutional policies on plagiarism and actual practices. We argue there is more at stake than just misunderstandings, a lack of knowledge, and/or ability on the part of students. As intermediary gatekeepers, teachers play a crucial role in contextualising rigid, broad policies so as to encompass both academic integrity and academic literacy. We conclude by making a number of recommendations with regard to teaching practices, student volition, and institutional mandates.

The Academic Vocabulary List (AVL) (Gardner & Davies, 2014) is a valuable resource for EAP teachers and students as it identifies potential lexical learning/teaching targets. This study enhances the AVL's pedagogical usefulness by identifying polysemous lemmas in it. Polysemous AVL lemmas are operationalised as those with more than one definition in two lexicographic resources, the Collins COBUILD Advanced Learners' Dictionary and WordNet. This study also examines a theoretical issue, the relationship between the number of meaning senses of AVL lemmas and their frequency in an academic-English corpus. To this end, correlations were calculated between the numbers of AVL lemmas' meaning definitions listed in both lexicographic resources and their frequency in the COCA-Academic corpus. 34.38% of the 2673 AVL lemmas included in both lexicographic resources, excluding homonyms, are polysemous. Most (66.05%) come from the most frequent 1000 AVL lemmas. The number of meaning definitions of AVL lemmas and their frequency are positively correlated. This correlation is non-linear, i.e., low-frequency words tend to be monosemous but beyond a frequency threshold, word definitions increase as word frequency increases. Implications for future research and teaching are discussed.

This study investigated citation features of Chinese English-major master s theses and doctoral dissertations and compared the citations in the literature reviews and discussions. Xu s (2016) framework based on systemic functional linguistics was expanded to incorporate content, function, writer s stance and types of citations into the ideational, interpersonal and textual dimensions. The literature review and discussion chapters in 30 master s theses and 30 doctoral dissertations were randomly collected for analysis. Results show that doctoral students fulfilled two functions of citations   application and agreement   significantly more than master s students. Doctoral students are better able to evaluate and apply previous models in their research and start to establish their academic identity by presenting direct support. Further analysis indicates that the functions of literature reviews and discussions influence the distribution of citation features. Both groups used one citation function   topic-relevance   more in discussions than in literature reviews to interpret their findings and compare them against previous scholars  claims. This study provides implications for theorizing L2 research writing and offers advice for students to improve their citation competence.

Review genres (e.g., literature review, critical review) are useful for developing students  abilities to evaluate literature critically; they have been widely used in university contexts as assessment tasks. The  news and views  article is one such review genre which is often included in science journals and which is increasingly used as an assessment task in graduate science courses. Published  News and views  articles provide a synopsis and critique of a research article. Usually written by a senior researcher, they provide a good exemplar of critique. To investigate how  news and views  articles persuade readers of their assessment of published studies, this article analyses the rhetorical moves and stance and engagement markers of published news and views articles. Findings were that moves in news and views articles had similarities with those in both research articles and review genres such as book reviews. Similar stance and engagement resources were used in news and views articles and research articles, but they were more frequent in news and views articles than in research articles. Based on this analysis, pedagogical applications for teaching critical evaluation of literature are discussed.

3MT presentations have emerged as an important academic genre, helping graduate students to present disciplinary knowledge to wide audiences. While previous research has investigated the structuring of presentations, little is known about the rhetorical features students employ to persuade their diverse listenership. In this study, we draw on Hyland s (2005) stance and engagement framework to explore how the popularisation of scientific knowledge has influenced the ways presenters interact with their audiences. Based on a 3MT corpus of 80 presentations from six disciplines, the results show that stance markers are more often used than listener engagement markers, while explicit mentions of self and listeners are the most common features. Additionally, presenters in the hard sciences, compared to those in soft-knowledge fields, make more use of the interactional features, but rhetorical questions are more frequently used in the soft knowledge fields. Therefore, we see this nuanced use of stance and engagement as related to the rhetorical contexts of register, genre and disciplinary propositional content. Pedagogical implications raised include developing students  ability in the popularisation of science and their raising their awareness of disciplinary knowledge and its social relevance.

This paper seeks to problematise the concept of finding information in EAP (English for Academic Purposes) writing programs. Drawing on the experiences of a group of female Emirati undergraduate students in an academic writing class in the United Arab Emirates, the paper argues that the act of finding information is not straightforward or universal, but is a social construction. Through the theoretical lens of activity theory (Engestr m, 1987; Leont'ev, 1981/2009), the paper presents the view that information is constructed as a goal oriented, socially situated activity mediated by physical and symbolic artefacts. The present study examined the types of mediating artefacts students used as they constructed information and the tensions and contradictions they experienced as they did so. Data collected via screen capture recordings, student reflections and interviews suggested that students constructed information by drawing on Discourses of being proficient Internet users, local Discourses of truth and the norms and assumptions underpinning the academic writing class they were enrolled in. The findings of the study are significant in shaping the reading-to-write processes and practices of EAP writing pedagogy.

Evaluation is pervasive in academic writing, and the past decades have witnessed a proliferation of research on writer's authorial evaluation in English academic writing. However, there is a lack of systematic review on evaluation research so far in the literature. To address this gap, this review aims to outline the major strands of research on authorial evaluation in English academic writing as well as the major methodological approaches adopted in the field of applied linguistics over the past twenty years, and to discuss the strengths and weaknesses of the methodological approaches in revealing the matter. The review identified four broad strands of literature in terms of the analytical framework applied (if any): the stance strand, the metadiscourse strand, the appraisal strand, and the voice strand. Then three major methodological approaches, namely the corpus-based approach, the in-depth textual approach, and the ethnographic approach, were identified and discussed with regard to their respective strengths and drawbacks in exploring evaluative meanings in English academic writing. Implications from this review were further discussed, and methodological directions for future research were pointed out.



Researchers working in multilingual contexts must draw on their own linguistic resources when conceptualizing, planning, conducting, and reporting their studies, whether for theses or publications, or in dissemination to other stakeholders. However, these multilingual processes have received little attention in previous research. Drawing on an ethnographic study undertaken by Sara Ganassin in Chinese community language education, we investigate what opportunities and challenges a  researching multilingually  perspective offers the researcher. We analyse narrative data and ethnographic observations to illustrate how the researcher drew on her multilingual resources vis-a-vis the linguistic spaces of her research context, the reflexive aspects of her multilingual positionality, and the ethical choices faced by her. From these insights, we make a theoretical and methodological case for embedding a researching multilingually approach in research that recognizes the linguistic resources of the researcher. The study has implications for building researcher capacity in multilingual research contexts, and for highlighting multilingual researcher processes that improve understanding, reporting, and representation of people from diverse linguistic and cultural horizons.

In this article, I propose the idea of public applied linguistics: that is, a type of applied linguistics that sees applied linguists doing the work of activism, with language activists, in the public, are (i) invested in the artistic representation of linkages between language reinvention and new relationalities, and (ii) highlighting, documenting and framing interventionist debates around language. Public applied linguists encounter, discourse with  language technicians , expert-like language activists working with new visions of language on the periphery of post-apartheid South Africa, to think language otherwise and as a critical historical process, continually reinvented through the unique, creative, and dynamic practices of multilingualism to attain linguistic justice.

The present study investigated the developmental patterns of Chinese EFL(AQ) learners  oral language in terms of complexity and accuracy and looked into the dynamic interactions between them within the framework of Complex Dynamic Systems Theory (CDST). The data were analysed using dynamic analyses (moving min max graphs, moving correlations and Monte Carlo Simulations). It was found that, firstly, at the group level, the general developmental trends of both complexity and accuracy showed improvements. Secondly, at the individual level, the developmental patterns were non-linear and dynamic with high degrees of variability, and individual language development was influenced by the initial states. Thirdly, the analyses revealed a complex interplay between complexity and accuracy, which gradually shifted from a clearly competitive relationship during the early stages to a supportive relationship in later stages. This shift in interaction shows that complexity goes hand in hand with accuracy, which corroborates the interconnectedness of subsystems as one of the major characteristics of CDST. The findings confirm the applicability of CDST approaches to L2 oral development and carry valuable implications for CDST theory development and oral language teaching.

Changing demography in the Southwest USA has shifted the racial compositions of many neighborhoods that were once predominantly African American to majority Latinx immigrant communities (Orfield and Frankenberg 2014). Today, it s common for these two youth communities to learn side-by-side in urban and suburban classrooms where they are often positioned to share each other s cultural practices (Martinez 2017). However, language and literacy research often positions these two minoritized communities as mutually exclusive (Paris 2010). Moreover, while researchers have urged the analysis of these two youth communities comparatively few studies document classroom units that cultivate spaces for  linguistic solidarity  (Martinez 2017). Drawing from an ethnographic study of an 11th-grade ethnic studies class, the authors explore how Arturo (third author) took up a critical translingual approach in his classroom where students both Latinx and African American collaborated through the cowriting of corridos (Mexican ballads) about their lived experiences with in/justice. The findings demonstrate the ways that this unit invited students to write across racial, ethnic, and linguistic borders and fostered language and cultural sharing, political consciousness, and solidarity.

Language complexity reveals the ability to use a wide and varied range of sophisticated structures and vocabulary. Although different languages compose complexity differently, complexity measures such as the T-unit have typically been based on clause subordination, which may underrepresent complexity and threaten the validity of studies. This study argues that an organic complexity measure should avoid the assumption of clause subordination and instead consider the typological features of the target language. Therefore, this study proposes the TC-unit in recognition of the topic chain as the underlying unit of Chinese complexity. It further validates TC-unit-based measures by investigating how accurately they predict proficiency group membership. Discriminant analyses of L1 and L2 Chinese speakers  spoken (N = 115) and written (N = 116) output elicited from a designed timed online test, revealed that TC-unit-based measures classified proficiency group membership with high efficiency (61.2 75.7 per cent). Mean length of terminable TC-unit proved the most effective indicator of spoken Chinese syntactic complexity, while mean length of terminable TC-unit and single TC-units per terminable TC-unit in combination proved the most effective for written Chinese syntactic complexity.

To address racial inequity and the exclusion of African Americans in applied linguistics, second-language acquisition, and world language (WL) education, our field must reckon with social justice problems of racism and anti-Blackness. Theoretical frameworks of critical race theory (CRT) and critical race pedagogy (CRP) elucidate how such injustices are perpetuated, plus, propose solutions for them. This article discusses racism and anti-Blackness in WL curriculum, materials, and instructional practices. It presents a post-hoc CRT analysis of findings from two studies: (i) an ethnographic study examining Spanish curriculum and instructional practices at two minority serving postsecondary institutions and (ii) a participatory action research collaboration with Spanish instructors examining curriculum at a predominantly white institution both studies linked by how they reveal endemic racism and anti-Blackness in WL programmes. Ultimately, this article addresses how African Americans can more authentically and successfully participate in WL programmes. It introduces to the field a proposal of CRP for more effective WL teaching to promote practices in antiracism, equity-mindedness, and inclusivity for greater retention and success of Black students.

Writing for international publication is a daunting prospect for all scholars but is particularly difficult for those off-network academics writing in an additional language. With little institutional support, they may solicit help from colleagues and other text mediators who do not share authorship. In this article, we investigate the experiences of 31 Chinese scientists seeking to publish in English, following their writing practices and use of discursive support by colleagues. We found that colleagues, although a valuable resource, were at best part of the solution. Many also turned to noncolleague text mediators, but with only limited success. Our study points to the need that institutions in non-Anglophone settings may need to sponsor systematic support to their scholars striving for international publication.

This study examines the interpreter role among students who serve as interpreters in a community health clinic system in the Midwestern USA as part of a community health-themed service-learning course for advanced Spanish students. Drawing on Positioning Theory (Davies and Harr  1990), I consider the ways in which three second language learners and three heritage speakers who participated in the program describe their roles as interpreters with reference to the Code of Ethics, negotiate their roles with the medical students and doctors also serving at the clinic, and make sense of moments in which they chose to advocate for the patients, or otherwise provide assistance to them, beyond interpreting. Each student encountered different types of challenges that reflected their individual backgrounds and experiences, and these challenges led to reflection, learning, and new perspectives on their roles in providing patient care. The article problematizes the role of bilingual student interpreters in community health programs and offers recommendations for preparing students to provide the highest possible quality of healthcare for speakers of minoritized languages.

This case study examines the consequences of community language attitudes and ideologies on later-generation heritage speakers through qualitative sociolinguistic and discourse analysis of 22 interviews with first- and second-generation Latinos of diverse backgrounds in a major US metropolitan area. The findings show that imposed deficit identities derived from ideologies of language purity, proficiency, and individual agency were misunderstood and stigmatized later-generation heritage speakers, leading to language insecurity and avoidance despite overtly positive attitudes toward Spanish maintenance. Results demonstrate the resilience of prescriptive/purist language attitudes and the tension inherent between these beliefs (albeit couched within positive heritage language attitudes) and speakers  actual bilingualism. Further, they show that the ideologies of individual agency can paradoxically contribute to the imposition of deficit sociolinguistic identities on later-generation speakers and curtail their language use. The study renders visible connections between ideologies of language, identity, and agency and demonstrates how their reproduction within families and communities circumscribes later-generation heritage speakers  linguistic identities and behavior.

This article is in three parts. Part 1 describes translation in relation to intercultural communication. Part 2 characterizes translation as intercultural communication designed to achieve intercultural understanding, which can be reached along two different paths: overt and covert translation (House 1977). These translation types and the notion of a  cultural filter  are characterized. Part 3 addresses the impact globalization and global English is having on translation today. Today, we know little about how massive unidirectional translations from English into other languages influence discourse norms in these languages. The paper discusses relevant research into this important issue. While there are some signs that a new kind of overt translation is gaining ground, suppressing cultural filtering and causing Anglophone norms to  shine through  in translation, other studies show that indigenous discourse norms remain intact.

Learning a visual language gives hearing mothers the possibility of participating in their deaf children s culture. Yet, mothers also grapple with the demands of an unmarked global hearing culture, especially as their children s deafness becomes mediated by technology and medical intervention, under the guise of progress, social mobility, equity, and inclusion (Lane et al. 1996). Access to spoken English through technological aids supposedly  solves  the perceived  problem  of communication and cultural difference between mother and child. But what is at stake in this process of translation aided by new technologies? I take a critical discourse analytic approach to analyze videotaped interviews with six hearing mothers. Hearing mother interviewees displayed ambivalent shifts in footing, in particular, mode-switches, which, I argue, paralleled the ambiguous subject positions of their deaf children who they perceive as both deaf (without implants) and hearing (with implants). This study brings to light the complex role technology and  cochlear implant culture  play in shaping an instrumentalized view of language with the objective of participating in local and global hearing culture.

Patient-Centered Outcomes Research (PCOR), rooted in the more established tradition of Community-Based Participatory Research (Deeb-Sossa 2019), seeks to empower patients in determining the most appropriate healthcare options by including and amplifying their voices in every aspect of the research process. In this article, we report on the outcomes of a four-year PCOR engagement effort in the US Midwest that aimed to include and amplify patient voices in language in healthcare policy. Our findings revealed feelings of patient disempowerment, discomfort with the social distance created by remote interpreting, and a mismatch of knowledge and expectations among interlocutors in medical interactions. Our discussions also underscored women s work in addressing healthcare issues within the family and their resilience in describing systemic inequities in health communication. We argue that participation in PCOR empowers patients through the enactment of testimonial justice. We conclude by discussing implications and recommendations for language researchers who are interested in working toward social justice in language in healthcare policy in USA and building a multi-stakeholder platform for PCOR.

This article involves the work of four language educators/researchers collaborating on an ongoing longitudinal multilingual participatory action research (PAR) project in a Bachelor of Arts (BA) language teaching program in Oaxaca, Mexico. Overall, this PAR project aims at the co-construction of social justice in ELT in Mexico. In particular, it explores an approach that would encourage learners to make full(er) use of their language resources to challenge the colonial othering discourses of inferiority, disability, and backwardness inherent in ELT in Mexico. The analyses reported in this article zooms in on the English learning experiences of three Indigenous background, low-socioeconomic status, female undergraduate students, and their alleged struggle with speaking English in teaching learning and assessment activities. The purpose of this article is to illustrate how a local English teacher co-constructed social justice with these three students. To fulfill this purpose, we succinctly present the focal students life stories and address three emergent themes: (i) unveiling alienating practices in the classroom; (ii) carving out spaces for multilingualism in the English classroom; and (iii) authoring assessment as a way to enact social justice.

Role models can exert considerable influence in shaping individuals  values, attitudes, and beliefs. A large body of work in the social sciences has investigated the influence of celebrity role models, and in the context of education, several disciplines have a rich research history in this area (e.g. medical education). However, in the context of second language acquisition, research centred on role models has largely remained on the periphery. This study presents a large-scale international survey investigating the role models of English language learners. With data collected from 8,472 participants, analysis investigated whether these learners had English language role models, who the role models were and what characteristics learners valued in them, and investigated systematic variation among subgroups. Results showed that 68 per cent of respondents reported having an English language role model, and four key role model dimensions emerged: overall command of English, paralinguistic features, personal attributes and accent/variety of English. We argue that role modelling may be a highly influential component of the psychological context of second-language acquisition, and conclude by highlighting several valuable areas for future research.

This paper examines two forms of listening in relation to racism and the minoritylanguage context in Catalonia. The research is based on a collaboration between twoacademics and RC (Racialised Catalans) which started with initial interviews on theireducational experiences and trajectories in Catalonia. From there, a collaboration betweenthe academics and a inter-cultural, anti-racism group (Junts a pseudonym) emerged .First, we analyse the role of the white listening subject in which RC are discriminatedagainst for a perceived lack of Catalan. Second, we describe how the group made otherslisten through their work. Thus, listening results in a form of 'undecideability' which requireswider society for the possibilities of racial equality.

In the highly multicultural workplace of today s multinational corporations (MNCs), translating across different cultures becomes a crucial issue. But what precisely counts as culture in the global workplace of the MNC? What does it exactly mean to be able to translate across cultures under the regimes of evaluation adopted by MNCs? In this article, I consider these questions through a discussion of the corporate discourse of diversity management, in which the cultural diversity of the workforce is understood as a resource for maximizing profit. Based on a critical review of diversity management literature and a study on Korean managers working for non-Korean MNCs in Singapore, I first show how diversity management s claim of openness and inclusivity actually works to reproduce unequal relations in the workplace. I then argue that attention to the politics of translation, where the ideological nature of evaluations of cultural (in)commensurability is highlighted, is needed for applied linguists  engagement with language and communication in the multicultural workplace.

This article argues that a new form of globalizing multilingualism, which I call  supralingualism , has been afoot since 1990, when the rise of algorithmic translation and cross-linguistic information retrieval (CLIR) practices set in in earnest in the supply-side logistics industries. A political landscape characterized by international consensus and compliance in the 1990s (as opposed to tariff wars and logistical nationalism) further buttressed this new ideology, leading to a newly multilingual centripetality in the global management of meaning. Based on historical examples and evidence from computational engineering, this article tracks the extraordinary growth of this sector and its implications for other arenas of language practice, implications that include: monolingualization, securitization, dehistoricization, lexicaliztation, and the reduction of  culture  to its most overt linguistic forms.

In 1988 and 2006, Applied Linguistics published Low s and Littlemore and Low s seminal theoretical accounts of second language (L2) metaphoric competence (MC). Meanwhile, attempts to elicit metaphor-related skills/competences have been mixed. Instrumentation has varied in reliability, been limited in scope, and used arguably flawed reliability coefficients (McNeish 2018). Factor analysis, used in first language (L1) MC and other areas of L2 research (Loewen et al. 2009; Plonsky and Gonulal 2015), has not been used to explore latent L2 MC variables. To address these issues, we developed a large battery of MC tests to elicit Low/Littlemore s constructs, administering it to 112 L1 Mandarin speakers of L2 English and 31 L1 English speakers. Data cleaning revealed some operationalization challenges, but resulting overall reliability was high and demonstrated innovative use of ordinal omega as a powerful alternative to Cronbach s alpha, the most common instrument reliability index in L2 research (Plonsky and Derrick 2016). Exploratory factor analysis suggested four latent L2 MC variables: Productive Illocutionary MC, Metaphor Language Play, Topic/Vehicle Acceptability, and Grammatical MC, broadly supporting Low/Littlemore s proposals.

The current study investigated advanced L2 learners  linguistic development before, during, and after a nine-month stay abroad, the extent to which contextual changes (home-abroad-home) influenced the nature and magnitude of development, and the ways in which relationships among different linguistic elements changed over time. Participants were 56 university learners majoring in French (n = 29) and Spanish (n = 27), who spent an academic year abroad in the middle of a four-year BA degree programme. Oral data were collected six times over 21 months to trace development and change in complexity, accuracy, fluency, and lexis. Results showed ongoing improvements over time on most measures, including accuracy. Correlations indicated long-term relationships between fluency and vocabulary only and that accuracy complexity relationships emerged in instructed home contexts only. These findings suggest that the affordances of home and abroad contexts can shape learners  linguistic development and use differently. The role of pre-departure linguistic ability is discussed as critical to understanding the nature and extent of L2 linguistic development in study abroad.

This article explores language learning as a process of translanguaging and of cultural translation. We draw examples from a sociolinguistic ethnography of translanguaging practices in a karate club in east London, UK. Formulaic Japanese is taught as part of karate techniques, practised as the language of performance and rituals and valued as the key indicator of karate expertise over other languages. Key karate verbal routines such as osu and kiai, while linguistically difficult to translate, bespeak core karate values such as respect and confidence, and equally important, the embodiment of these verbal routines is well integrated into karate moves, breaking down the dichotomy of verbal and physical dimensions of the interaction. The predominant use of formulaic Japanese in rituals, along with other semiotic resources, creates an imagined karate world characterized by hierarchy and guarded through the value of respect. In examining whose karate and how cultural traditions, values and practices are translated and why, we broaden the concept of language and regard it as a multifaceted sense- and meaning-making resource and explore the theoretical implications of taking language teaching and learning as a process of cultural translation.

The present study examined the effects of input, input repetition and individual differences (i.e., prior vocabulary knowledge and working memory) on L2 learners  incidental lexical mining in an immediate and a repeat oral task. Ninety participants were allocated to three groups: input (n = 32), input repetition (n = 29), and no input (n = 29). The input group was exposed to input before performing an immediate oral task, whereas the input repetition group was exposed to input before and after performing the immediate oral task. The no input group only performed the oral task without input exposure. Three groups repeated the same oral task after two days. Lexical mining was measured as the number of words and formulaic sequences shared between the oral tasks and the input text. The findings showed that the participants could mine both single words and formulaic sequences in the immediate and the repeat oral task. Yet, while the number of shared words in the repeat oral task was the same as in the immediate oral task, the number of shared formulaic sequences was lower. There was no effect of input repetition on lexical mining in the repeat oral task. Finally, only prior vocabulary knowledge was positively correlated to lexical mining.

Pre-service teachers face a number of challenges which might threaten their wellbeing, including negotiating their student and teacher roles, and difficulties in managing their pupils and workload (Day & Gu, 2010). Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they have been confronted with additional challenges resulting from the transition to online learning and teaching, as well as social problems caused by lockdowns. In this study, we explore the wellbeing of six pre-service language teachers through individual interviews conducted during the first wave of the pandemic. The study has two main aims. Firstly, we seek to identify how these pre-service teachers coped with the challenges of becoming a teacher in the context of a major disruption to their wellbeing. Secondly, we aim to contribute to theoretical work in this field by examining their wellbeing from a Complex Dynamic Systems Theory (Larsen-Freeman & Cameron, 2008) perspective to explore the dynamic and complex nature of the construct. Findings revealed that the pandemic served as a critical incident leading to diverse attractor states for each individual's wellbeing. They also show how agency played a key role in guiding the trajectory of the teachers' wellbeing system, and that this was contingent upon individual perceptions of environmental affordances.

Listening to academic content in English medium instruction (EMI) can be particularly challenging when students transit from an L1-instructed secondary school to an EMI university. Under such circumstances, students need to quickly develop and apply new strategies to regulate their listening to lengthy and spontaneous teacher talk in their L2. This study explores the self-regulated listening of first-year Chinese students after entry to an EMI transnational university in mainland China. Data were collected from 412 students via a battery of measures of listening strategies, listening proficiency and self-efficacy to explore the role of these variables in strategic listening. Interviews were also conducted with 35 students to better understand the strategies they applied in the forethought, performance and self-reflection phases of self-regulation. Results revealed that students engaged in a holistic self-regulatory cycle of learning to cope with the transition to listening to EMI classes, where their listening experience and use of strategies in class were closely associated with their learning before and after class. Results highlighted the importance of preview activities in facilitating listening. They also emphasised the role of self-efficacy and baseline proficiency in EMI listening, which has important implications for language teaching in preparatory programs during this transition period.

Research in L2 motivation of the past 60 years has gone through a journey from seeking the sources of motivation within the individual to currently locating motivation at the interplay of cognitive, affective, and social parameters. This study adopts D rnyei s (2005) L2 Motivational Self System and employs an adapted version of Taguchi et al. s (2009) questionnaire in order to examine Greek university students  motivational profiles with regard to ideal L2 self and ought-to L2 self and promotion and prevention instrumentality. In the cluster analysis three motivational clusters are identified, with prevention instrumentality and ideal L2 self as main distinguishing factors. Through a series of analyses of variance and crosstabulation the three clusters are associated with language-related, future goals and social variables: The emergent clusters are: the highly motivated students also most proficient in L2, the low motivated students also least proficient in L2 and the overstrivers. Promotion orientations (ideal L2 self and instrumentality promotion) lead to higher L2 proficiency that lasts longer while prevention orientations erode it. The study compares Greek university students  actual achievement to self-perceived competence and highlights the importance of the two regulatory orientations for the study of L2 motivation.

Despite the frequent implementation of prewriting discussion in L2 writing classrooms, little attention has been paid to the issue that which language, L1 or L2, should be used for discussion. To advance our knowledge on this issue, we compared the effects of L1 and L2 prewriting discussions on L2 writing performance. We randomly assigned 66 university students to two groups in terms of the language they were required to use throughout the discussion: the L1 group and the L2 group. Within each group, they formed pairs to talk about a given writing topic, after which they individually finished their writing and completed an online retrospective questionnaire. We compared the writings of the two groups in terms of complexity, accuracy, fluency, content richness, and holistic quality. The results suggested that: 1) the L1 group outperformed the L2 group in lexical complexity, accuracy, and fluency, while there were no between-group differences in other measures; 2) the L1 group overall held more positive views towards the effect of the discussion, especially in terms of the facilitative role of discussion in improving fluency. These findings point to the need of a balanced use of students  L1 and L2 in L2 writing classrooms.

This study examined the linguistic and extra-linguistic sources of speech anxiety of second/foreign language (L2) learners of Chinese through a structural equation modeling approach. Data were collected from 226 L2 learners of Chinese via questionnaires and speaking tests. Three competing models were proposed to understand how linguistic (i.e., speech proficiency) and extra-linguistic (i.e., willingness-to-communicate/WTC, socio-cultural attitudes, speech strategies, and speech self-efficacy) factors jointly influenced learners' L2 Chinese speech anxiety. The results of model comparisons suggested that 1) speaking strategies were the most positive predictor directly contributing to speech anxiety; 2) the other significant direct predictors included WTC, speaking self-efficacy, and speaking proficiency; 3) socio-cultural attitudes had a positive indirect effect on speech anxiety through the mediation of WTC. The study concluded with pedagogical implications on how to ameliorate students  L2 Chinese speech anxiety in classroom teaching.

Previous studies investigating the effects of spacing on vocabulary learning have primarily focused on single words. There is limited research on how distributed practice affects the learning of the phrasal lexicon. The present study addresses this gap by focusing on collocations. In a pretest-treatment-delayed-posttest design, two controlled quasi-experiments (N = 55 and N = 50) were conducted in order to evaluate two spacing schedules, spaced versus massed. The participants learned 25 adjective-noun collocations either incidentally (Experiment 1) or deliberately (Experiment 2). In each experiment, a control group was included. Participants  collocational gains were measured at a form-recall level of mastery three weeks after the treatment. Mixed-effects regression modelling results indicate that spacing had a significantly large effect on vocabulary gains in the deliberate learning condition and a small effect on gains in the incidental learning condition. Massing, on the other hand, appears to be more effective (with a medium effect) in incidental learning situations. Implications for pedagogy and materials design are followed by suggestions for future research.

The purpose of this study is to find the optimal timing for giving learners a small quiz for L2 vocabulary learning. This study had 68 university students remember 20 English and Japanese word pairs. A week later, the S-TS group (n = 30) took the first L1 meaning recall test before the review, whereas the S-ST group (n = 38) took the review before the recall test. Both groups took Posttest 1 a week later and Posttest 2 a month later. The S-TS group showed a higher retention rate in Posttest 1 and the gap became larger in Posttest 2. The present study provided original Results in that (a) it showed the positive effects of a test session before the review on long-term retention; (b) it took into consideration the effect of participants  expectations of Posttest 1 on the test results; (c) it revealed that higher expectations of a subsequent test by the S-TS group may have led to better performance in the test.

This article reports a quantitative empirical study that explored the relationship between English language proficiency and academic language-related challenges experienced by students when studying through English Medium Instruction (EMI). Questionnaire data using the EMI Challenges Scale and student English language test score data were collected at a public university in Turkey. Two academic subjects were compared: International Relations (a Social Science subject, n = 99) and Electronic Engineering (a Mathematics, Physical and Life Sciences subject, n = 99). Results revealed that in both subjects, English language proficiency statistically significantly predicted academic language-related challenges. Furthermore, a gain in English proficiency significantly predicted the challenges in International Relations but not in Electronic Engineering. Finally, Electronic Engineering students experienced significantly different levels of linguistic-related challenges in each language skill when at a lower proficiency (A2) compared to a higher proficiency (B2). In International Relations, a proficiency threshold was more evident; students experienced significantly higher levels of linguistic-related challenges as proficiency decreased. Important pedagogical implications of this established relationship between language proficiency, language gain, and language-related challenges in two academic divisions are discussed.

This study investigated the use of cloud-based videoconferencing technology in the activity  Conversation Cloud  to provide Thai undergraduates with opportunities for authentic conversations with English speakers across the globe. Data included 115 Likert scale survey responses and content analysis of students' commentaries in the survey, consolidated with qualitative interviews with key respondents and the researcher's field notes. The study examined a videoconferencing environment on a macro level and attempted to identify influential variables as well as their relationships within the whole environment. Content analysis was conducted to systematically glean the most frequently mentioned variables from learner experience, revealing key elements and characteristics in an ecosystem of language learning. Emerging themes which provide insights regarding favorable conditions include the  organic  nature of the learning ecosystem, scaffolded learning, and diversity. The study aims to shed light on how a videoconferencing environment could be designed and created to enhance students' learning experience and facilitate their speaking progress in order for them to become confident English speakers in a global environment.

This study combined collaborative tasks with qualitative research procedures in order to explore what factors students had experienced as demotivating in their English learning and their suggestions for remedying them. It was conducted with an intact class of 40 advanced learners of English (mostly future teachers) following a Masters course. In the first stage of the study, the motivational change graph of Song and Kim (2017) was used to stimulate learners to chart the development of their motivation over successive stages of their learning career and to reflect on reasons for significant fluctuations (downwards or upwards). The results served as the subject of peer interviews and brief class reports on individual participants' experiences. In the second stage, prepared with these reflections, participants were asked to focus on their past classroom experience, as well as that of other students they had known. Using the collaborative learning technique of forward snowball, participants were first asked to brainstorm and list all factors they could think of which might lead to demotivation in English learning. This was followed by a reverse snowball stage which required deeper reflection and critical thinking. In groups of 4 or 5, participants were asked to analyze and decide (a) what they regarded as the five most important demotivational factors in language learning and (b) what pedagogical strategies might be effective in remedying them. Results were combined into a class profile. This stage also served to bridge the transition in the course from a series of classes that had focused mainly on learning to one which would focus mainly on pedagogy. The experience (with others) was also intended to contribute to the students'  experiential knowledge  of task-based learning in preparation for their future work as teachers.

The use of computer-mediated communication (CMC) combined with data-driven instruction to facilitate second/foreign language (L2) pragmatic development has been shown to be promising. Despite increasing amounts of CMC-based interventional studies of L2 pragmatics, existing literature is inconclusive concerning the influence of CMC paired with data-driven instruction on L2 pragmatic competence. Moreover, few studies have incorporated qualitative analyses exploring factors that affect L2 learners' pragmatic decision-making. Thus, this mixed-methods study aimed to further investigate the effect of CMC on English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners  pragmatic development of compliment responses (CRs) in two conditions: CMC by itself and CMC combined with data-driven instruction. Fifty-nine university-level Chinese EFL students were divided into two groups; the experimental group engaged in CMC with native speakers and received data-driven instruction in CRs, whereas the control group had CMC without data-driven instruction. Results revealed that the experimental group outperformed the control group in the immediate and delayed post-intervention tests regarding appropriateness and variety, indicating a positive and durable effect of CMC coupled with data-driven instruction on L2 pragmatic development. Additionally, findings from retrospective interviews showed that L2 pragmatic knowledge, crosslinguistic influence, and online processing load potentially influence L2 pragmatic choices. Implications for instructors are discussed.

While self-efficacy has been constantly related to language learning outcomes, so far, no study, to the best of our knowledge, has investigated whether self-efficacy profiles are associated with academic emotions and language proficiency among Chinese English-as-a-foreign-language (EFL) undergraduates. This study aimed to identify self-efficacy profiles using a person-centered latent profile analysis (LPA) and explore their relationships with academic emotions and language proficiency. Three hundred non-English major undergraduates from two universities in China completed the questionnaires measuring their self-efficacy beliefs, academic emotions and language proficiency in a national standardized test. The LPA results identified three groups representing low, medium and high self-efficacy levels. Students with high level of self-efficacy experienced the most pleasant emotions (enjoyment, pride), the least unpleasant emotions (anger, anxiety, and shame), and scored highest in overall language test, as well as the listening and reading subtests. Those in the low and medium self-efficacy groups showed differences in most measures of academic emotions but not in language proficiency. This study could enhance the understanding of Chinese EFL undergraduates  self-efficacy patterns and offer new insights into English language instruction practice.

The continuing impact of Gardner's notion of integrativeness on the field of second language motivation (SLM) was recently highlighted in a prominent edited volume, the publication and contents of which imply that, even today, the notion should not be sidelined. However, important theoretical criticisms of integrativeness, such as the claim that since English is now a lingua franca it is no longer associated with a specific speaker community, have been raised. This study discusses several prominent criticisms of integrativeness, investigates the degree to which attitudes indicating integrativeness are present in a cohort of modern Malaysian high school students learning English, seeks to account for such findings in the modern Malaysian context, and explores the implications of the findings for the status and potential utility of integrativeness and the socio-educational model. An adapted questionnaire was used to collect attitudinal data from 278 upper secondary students in the Klang Valley, Malaysia, and the results were statistically analyzed. Moderately high levels of integrativeness were found among the participants. This finding implies that integrativeness and the socio-educational model may have continuing relevance in the modern world.

This study investigated the emergence of ideas at a word-formation level in group tasks with and without a formal constraint condition (alliteration). Japanese beginner-level learners of German were asked to work in triads to invent and explain German compound nouns. Applying the methodological framework of conversation analysis, all interaction between students was transcribed and coded for instances of self- or other-directed idea proposals for completing the task in German or Japanese. The dialogical nature of creativity was further described by number and quality of language-related episodes (LREs) revolving around explanation proposals per idea. The formal constraint in the task design caused a change in the students' approach and shifted the initial focus from meaning to form. Consequently, more ideas occurred in the students  second language and compound nouns were built ad hoc, resulting in higher opacity. This in turn caused more incidents of collaborative explanation proposals. The study suggests that putting formal constraints on tasks for beginner-level language learners can guide students in using and noticing more unfamiliar vocabulary, which may lead to collaborative language play regarding semantic extensions and meta-linguistic features.

A growing body of evidence supports the effectiveness of instant response systems (IRSs) in fostering learning, but related studies in foreign language education are scarce. This study aims to fill this gap by examining the efficacy of IRS question-and-answer learning activities in the context of large English as a foreign language (EFL) classes for beginner students with elementary-level English proficiency. A series of question-and-answer activities based on IRS using the peer instruction (PI) is created for helping students promote their learning. A total of 102 university students participated in a quasi-experiment; 52 were assigned to an experimental group and learnt with an IRS-integrated activity, while 50 were in a control group and learnt with a non-IRS activity. The data were gathered using an achievement assessment instrument, a perception questionnaire, and individual interviews. The collected data were then analysed to examine students' learning achievements and learning perceptions. Results show that IRS can effectively promote students  learning, and foster positive perceptions of learning. Future implementations on IRS-integrated learning activities are thus recommended for educators.

The field of language learning strategies (LLS) has grown significantly, experiencing many twists and turns over the years. Consequently, this study takes stock of, and reports on, definitional and conceptual changes, because how we define a concept can greatly affect its impact on teaching and research. We collected 461 journal articles from prominent databases and divided them into three time periods marked by major developments in the field: 1975 1990, 1991 2005, and 2006 2019. We then used content analysis to categorize, code, and explore explicit definitions found in the articles and various corpus-based techniques on the full texts to investigate implicit conceptualizations of LLS within and across these time periods. The findings indicate that elements of self-directedness (e.g., self-regulation, agency, and autonomy) are increasingly prevalent in researchers  conceptualizations over time. The findings also highlight trends in language related to self-directedness, especially in the way strategies are portrayed to be operationalized by learners and in their intended purpose(s). Based on our findings, we argue for a change in thinking from the ideal to the actual in LLS conceptualizations and call for reconceptualized roles of teachers and students that are more representative of and compatible with instructed language learning contexts.

This study identifies the research trends of  trans-  studies on writing by analyzing 165 journal articles from a bibliometric approach. The corpus consists of peer-reviewed journal articles published from 2011 to 2020, during which  trans-  studies on writing experienced rapid development in its conceptualization and implementation. Our analysis concentrates on (1) the most highly cited authors and articles and (2) the most frequently discussed concepts and their changes over the past decade. The results reveal that translingual practice, a concept that is mainly developed by Suresh Canagarajah (2013a, 2013b, 2015, 2018), has been increasingly adopted to illustrate language practices in writing processes. Other concepts, such as translingual approach, spatial repertoires, translanguaging, and translingualism, have also been widely discussed in writing studies, which corroborates the central principles of  trans-  studies on writing. With this growing interest,  trans-  principles have been increasingly enacted in writing practices, which has been reflected in the increasing use of the word combinations, such as translingual pedagogy, translanguaging pedagogy, and translanguaging space. The results also show that some terms, such as translingual writing, code-switching, code-meshing, and monolingualism, have been decreasingly discussed due to some misunderstandings of those terms and the relatively stable conceptualization of  trans-  terms.

Teachers routinely make a conscious effort to manage their emotions in front of students. The present study focused on emotional labor strategies from 594 Chinese English Foreign Language (EFL) teachers, seeking to discover which ones are preferred, how they are related to each other and how they are linked to teachers  sociobiographical, institutional, attitudinal, linguistic and psychological characteristics. Statistical analyses revealed that the strategy Expression of naturally felt emotions was preferred to Surface acting and that both dimensions were moderately negatively correlated. Correlation analyses revealed that sociobiographical variables were unrelated to both dependent variables. Multiple regression analyses revealed that the strongest predictors of Expression of naturally felt emotions were attitudes towards students, Emotionality (a factor of Trait Emotional Intelligence) and two institutional variables. Sociability (another factor of Trait Emotional Intelligence) was the only predictor of Surface acting. The findings are linked to previous research and some pedagogical implications are presented.

While a wide range of trait-like and situational willingness to communicate (WTC) factors have been investigated, subsequent pedagogical advice often focuses on teacher-led interventions and does not enable learners themselves to overcome immediate WTC related difficulties. This may be because little is known about how students protect and enhance their own WTC levels. This study, therefore, positions students as peer peer strategy investigators; learners used idiodynamic methodology to interview a selected peer about strategies they used to protect and enhance their WTC during a classroom discussion. Interviewers shared their WTC-related insights in a follow-up class, providing participants with maximum exposure to the elicited WTC-focused strategies. A key finding was that talk-positive students used a combination of expected behaviours and task-outcome-visualization in combination with  resetting  meta-cognitive strategies to overcome learning difficulties. Furthermore, students reported three approaches to peer peer strategy sharing: desire for self-improvement, rapprochement with peers, and personal reassurance. In addition to understanding task completion- and communication-difficulties and learning potential WTC-focused strategy resolutions, some individuals reported a change in mind-set and continued to observe their peers' learning-focused behaviours after the study. Thus, this idiodynamic peer peer approach may be used for ongoing WTC-focused learner development and improved intra-group dynamics.

This study accounts for the results obtained from a teaching innovation project called SubESPSKills (Subtitling tasks in the English for Specific Purposes class to improve written production skills) with a control and experimental group of undergraduates taking a course on Business English. The study was conducted during the 2018 2019 academic year at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Spain. Among our main goals was the improvement of writing production skills in the English for Specific Purposes class. In order to do so, reverse subtitling was used as an audiovisual translation tool to enhance participants  written skills in a course of Business English (Degree in Commerce). With the aim of using reverse subtitling as a tool for the practice of writing in English as a foreign language, the participants were required to submit a number of activities of written production on topics related to business and commerce. Additionally, they had to subtitle two videos from Spanish/Chinese into English, related to the aforementioned area of knowledge. Subsequently, a mixed method was followed since quantitative and qualitative data were gathered and analysed. The results presented here aim to prove the potential of active reverse subtitling as a tool for foreign language learning.

Discussion (and/or other closing) (DC) sections of research articles in English-medium journals are difficult to write, especially when English is not a first language. This intercultural rhetoric research explores whether greater effort is made to promote research in English than in Spanish. I drew ten pairs of comparable DC sections from the EXEMPRAES (exemplary empirical research articles in English and Spanish) Corpus. I systematically annotated these sections for their communicative functions, and, for the first time, my annotations were validated by the article authors, themselves. Additionally, I used an online survey to understand the authors' promotional behaviour. This innovative mixed methodology confirmed that the social scientists in the study were more promotional in English than in Spanish. Authors in English highlighted more positive aspects of their studies and applications of their results. In contrast, Spanish authors were more neutral, focussing largely on statements of contribution and relevance to the zeitgeist. Revealing how different levels of culture (unstated communication principles, knowledge areas, socialisation processes and research assessment policies) affect the inclusion of specific communicative functions demonstrates how social scientists  promotional approaches in DC sections are complex and merit further attention. Implications for the teaching of academic writing in English are drawn.

Genre analysis has provided many insights into the structure of research articles, but engineering articles have often been grouped with the hard sciences, obscuring their distinctive features. This study reports the development of a research-based curriculum for engineering writing in an English as a lingua franca context, including a published textbook and ancillary materials, during eight years of action research. A new textual analysis method incorporating ideas from genre analysis and argumentation theory, component analysis, was developed to allow students to describe the structure of research articles. The instructor and students, with background support from their advisors, used this to co-construct an understanding of the prototypical structures of engineering articles. Student input helped clarify the analysis categories, textbook descriptions, and assessments. Component analysis may be useful to writing instructors as a basis for quickly understanding how research articles differ, reducing the time necessary to develop research-based curricula for other fields or genres.

Nowadays, it is very difficult to find pure genres in the real world of discourse. Professional writers often appropriate and exploit generic resources to invade other genres in discourse construction in order to achieve social and private intentions. One of the most dominant genres that have invaded other genres is the promotional genre. However, little research has investigated this genre from an intertextual and interdiscursive perspective. This study critically analyzed 80 advertorials from different magazines by examining the use of intertextuality and interdiscursivity references. The results indicate that direct reporting strategies of intertextuality are heavily employed in advertorials. The study also shows that the utilization of intertextual references exhibits some specific interconnection between a particular text and a genre. Meanwhile, through interdiscursive analysis, it demonstrates the ways in which generic resources of one particular genre are skillfully appropriated to create another promotional genre by the specific discourse community. Findings as such have both pedagogical implications and practical insights for ESP practitioners, learners as well as professional writers in various contexts.

Since its emergence in the 1960s, ESP has become a key aspect of language teaching and research. This paper traces the last 30 years of this journey to show its emergence from the periphery of applied linguistics to a serious force on the world stage. To do this we use bibliometric techniques to track changes in ESP research through an analysis of all 3,500 papers on the Social Science Citation Index since 1990 dealing with ESP topics. We identify which topics have been most prevalent and which authors, publications, journals and countries most influential over time. The results indicate that classroom practices remain central to the discipline and that there has been a consistent interest in specialised texts, particularly written texts, and in higher education and business English, with a massive increase in attention devoted to identity and academic and workplace discourses. The global interest in these questions is shown by the range of authors, diversity of geographical sources and the uptake of papers in a range of fields. We believe our findings may interest both ESP professionals in identifying crucial publishing areas and academics fascinated by the emergence of a new discipline.

Teaching materials developed in-house are commonly used in EAP courses; however, research on their linguistic content, which can have important pedagogical implications, is scarce. This study examines the occurrence and repetition of general academic vocabulary, operationalised as the Academic Vocabulary List (AVL) (Gardner & Davies, 2014), in the printed teaching materials developed in-house and used in a presessional EAP course at a UK university. The course was divided into three modules and taught over five weeks. At the end of each week, teachers provided us with photocopies of the printed teaching materials they had used. A corpus was compiled from the printed materials of each module. The results show that 846 AVL lemmas (i.e., 28.07% of the lemmas in the AVL) appeared in the materials. They were not equally distributed among the three modules and only 90 AVL lemmas overlapped across modules. The results also show that the average repetition rate of AVL lemmas in the materials was unlikely to lead to the incidental development of recall knowledge from exposure to these materials alone. Recommendations are made for the development of in-house EAP materials and teaching activities that increase students' exposure to academic vocabulary and facilitate its learning.

With the rise of English as the language of global communication, English is increasingly being adopted as the Medium of Instruction (EMI) in countries where it is not the first language. When implementing EMI, a primary concern is students' lack of English proficiency and the impact this has on teaching content (Bradford, 2016; Hu & Lei, 2014; Kim, Kim & Kweon, 2018; Macaro et al., 2018). One country where EMI has been widely adopted across both secondary and higher education is Lebanon. While research has documented Lebanese EMI instructors' perceptions of their students' proficiency and their perceived role in the classroom, research into Lebanese EMI students' academic writing proficiency remains limited (Khachan & Bacha, 2012). The present study seeks to build on this research by examining the challenges Lebanese EMI students face when writing for academic purposes through an analyses of students' assignments in a discipline course and triangulating them with teachers' perceptions of students' writing challenges. This comparison revealed that the instructors' perceptions aligned with students' performance on two of the three perceived challenges noted in the interviews. These conclusions may serve to inform EMI policy and curriculum design by reconciling instructors' perceptions with the reality of their students  linguistic proficiency and learning needs.

If-constructions, with functional versatility, are of great importance to academic writing. While considerable literature has been published on If-constructions in research articles and naturally occurring discourse, relatively limited attention has been paid to how If-constructions are used in L2 learners' academic writing. To address this gap, a comparative study on the use of If-constructions is reported in this paper with regard to the overall distribution and meaning negotiation in corpora of Chinese L2 learners' theses and published research articles in applied linguistics. We draw upon Warcha 's (2010) typology of conditional clauses and Martin and White's (2005) notion on writer-reader meaning negotiation and examine propositional and pragmatic meanings, monoglossic and heteroglossic If-constructions used in the corpora. We also discuss the major reasons for the differences and similarities in the overall distribution and meaning negotiation. From this case study, we conclude that If-constructions are one of the key options from the academic writers' rhetorical toolkit, allowing them to make propositional and pragmatic meanings and to negotiate a dialogic space in academic discourse.

In this paper we focus on teachers' use of discourse functions as transmitters and builders of content knowledge in the context of English-medium instruction (EMI) at the university level. Couched within the construct of Cognitive Discourse Function (CDF) (Dalton-Puffer, 2016), we analyze 6 two-hour lessons delivered by three lecturers in history. In line with the competences set out by the Spanish Ministry and the Department of History at the University of the Basque Country (Spain) for the history degree, this analysis allows us to examine how cognitive functions are operationalized in real classroom language. The study aims to analyze whether CDFs are instrumental in the acquisition of competences in history. Our findings reveal that teachers frequently use complex CDFs by combining different types of discourse functions to achieve their communicative goals and pave the way for students  acquisition of history competences. We conclude by putting forward some refinements and specifications of CDFs in terms of what is required by history as a discipline.

Even with the popularity of genre-based teaching, conceptual blind spots and knowledge gaps still exist regarding the place of language in the ESP genre-based approach to teaching writing. Examining the literature carefully, I explicate in this article how lexico-grammatical features have been attended to in the theoretical tenets, textbooks, and classroom practices in the ESP genre-based approach, an approach that is appealing to writing instructors and ESP practitioners. Regarding theoretical tenets, I unpack the inseparability of lexico-grammatical features from rhetorical organizations or rhetorical contexts in the ESP genre-based approach. With regard to textbooks, I demonstrate the intensive and expert attention to lexico-grammatical features in graduate-level ESP genre-based textbooks. I explore the possibility of using the inductive, guided discovery approach to develop undergraduate-level teaching materials that focus on common, unique, and important lexico-grammatical features. As to classroom practices, I present student-centered discovery-based analysis, detailed explanations, and targeted corpus searches, among other classroom practices that concentrate on lexico-grammatical features in graduate and undergraduate writing classes. I conclude the article by asking whether facilitating students  fluent control of lexico-grammatical features for producing genres should constitute one of the goals of genre-based teaching and, if so, what some of the pedagogical and research practices may be for achieving such a goal.

Empirical research writing is one of the primary means of disseminating knowledge in academia. It is through this particular form of knowledge dissemination that a rich body of scientific knowledge about a given phenomenon is accumulated. This paper explores patterns of variation in the language of this specific sub-register of academic writing, as reflected in the use of words in different sections of empirical research articles from across ten disciplinary fields. An inductive approach was adopted through which patterns of specificity in vocabulary use were systematically identified, triangulated and verified using different methods of data analysis. The results presented in this study show that the lexical choices academics make in the process of composing their research papers are differentially affected by the standards and conventions of scholarly activities in their field. It was found that such conventions have the potential to govern the delineation of authors  linguistic decisions at the most basic levels, such as the lexis.

Studies on author identity and relations in academic writing have mostly focused on research articles and relatively few studies have attended to the construction of identity in texts where there is a more obvious unequal relationship between author and reader. This paper reports on a study of interpersonal relationships constructed in an occluded genre, the manuscript review, and compares writer reader relations across reviews with three different reviewer recommendations:  reject,   major revision,  and  minor revision.  An analysis of select lexicogrammatical features used in the construction of recommendations and the presence of author and reader in texts reveals the construction of a more unequal relationship between author and reader in  major revision  and  reject  reviews than in  minor revision  reviews. This is due to the use of strong directives, the lack of author presence in mitigating negative evaluation and recommendations given, and the more direct reference to authors through the use of the second person pronoun, especially in negative comments. This study reveals that the polite and egalitarian relationship identified in public academic genres may not always be present in private academic genres and shows that author persona can vary in response to purpose, context, and readers of a genre.

This paper builds on our recent work (Anderson et al., 2020; Anderson & Okuda, 2019; Anderson et al., 2021) investigating macrostructural variation in doctoral dissertations. Two of the central questions that remained under-addressed in this (and other) prior research were if and how dissertation macrostructures have changed over time, and what this change might indicate in terms of acceptable and preferred dissertation writing practices and the personal choices and institutional forces that shape dissertation genres. To address this, our present study includes a corpus of 1,254 doctoral dissertations from a single Canadian research university spanning a 52-year period from 1966 to 2018. As a related question, we were also curious about the proclivity of co-authorship practices in dissertation texts, since previous research (Anderson et al., 2021) has demonstrated that co-authorship is common with certain dissertation macrostructures but much less so (or even non-existent) in others. As shown below, both macrostructures and co-authorship demonstrated changes over time in the corpus of texts analyzed for this study. Dissertations are now increasingly manuscript-based and/or contain published sections, many of these co-authored. The authors conclude with implications of this change and calls for further inquiry in this area.

The effectiveness of preparing English language learners for workplace technical writing in various fields (e.g. engineering, business), has been widely contested by both social learning theories and research investigating university workplace transition of novice employees. In this paper, we present a needs analysis conducted in the workplace that addressed socio-contextual elements with the understanding that the complexity of workplace writing needs for English L2 learners is always changing. In doing so, we provide new evidence for the argument that socio-contextual elements need to be embraced to improve preparedness. Taking a social perspective of writing, this qualitative study explores the situated nature of workplace writing experienced by vocational college graduates. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 12 vocational college graduates and four line managers at five private sector companies in Oman over a period of eight months. Additionally, 29 of the graduates  workplace texts were analysed. Data reveal that socio-contextual elements strongly influence writing practices surrounding the text. By highlighting this key contextual element, we suggest that to better equip learners for workplace writing, ESP course designers need to address the text-context relationship and contextualised nature of written genres.

This paper studies engagement in English-medium research articles across two disciplines, linguistics and economics, and two linguacultural backgrounds, Anglophone and Czech, in order to explore how disciplinary and linguacultural considerations affect the choice, frequency and distribution of engagement markers in the construal of persuasive academic discourse. The contrastive analysis applying Hyland & Jiang's (2016) modified model of engagement is carried on a corpus of 60 refereed research articles published in international and local academic journals within these disciplines and linguacultural backgrounds. The findings indicate the existence of cross-disciplinary variation, as authors of linguistics research articles employ significantly more engagement features than those of economics research articles. Moreover, linguistics research articles show a preference for proximity engagement markers aiming at enhancing disciplinary solidarity, while economics research articles tend to prioritize positioning engagement features directing readers towards intended understandings and anticipating alternative interpretations. Intercultural variation, which is less significant and affects the frequency of use and choice of specific engagement markers, reflects divergences in linguacultural conventions, target audiences and contexts of publication. These results indicate the potential of this doubly contrastive approach to contribute towards an understanding of rhetorical choices in academic discourse. The study can have important pedagogic applications in efforts to support academic writers.

Randomised controlled trials are considered the gold standard for assessing the effectiveness of treatments. Since the 1990s, there have been growing concerns about the objectivity of RCT reporting, leading to the creation of The Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) Statement. Although this document provides a medical perspective on the reporting requirements, it does not provide explicit guidelines on language use. This paper focuses on Introductions of clinical psychology research articles (RAs) classified as RCT reports. Within the ESP tradition, RA Introductions have been identified as the most rhetorically complex RA sections. Consequently, a remarkable volume of ESP research on the RA genre has focused on the linguistic means of persuasion in the introductory section. However, the primary focus on lexical and grammatical features has been found to have significant limitations in exploring genre-sensitive language use. This study uses the appraisal system developed in systemic functional linguistics to investigate the use of evaluative language for demonstrating topic significance in RCT Introductions. The results indicate the existence of three strands of evaluation targeting the disorder under investigation with reference to its: (i) symptoms/effects; (ii) affected population, and (iii) treatment. The findings of this study carry important pedagogical implications for teaching novice medical researchers.

The Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) narratives in corporate annual reports (ARs) provide critical information for investors and financial analysts. This study reports results of a comparative multi-dimensional analysis of the linguistic features of MD&A narratives in the ARs produced by Chinese and American public companies on the 2015 Fortune Global 500 list. Our results show that, compared to the MD&A narratives produced by American companies, those produced by Chinese companies are more narrative, less explicit in expressing the authors  views, and less technical, abstract and formal; they also have fewer features of on-line informational elaboration. The linguistic features of the MD&A narratives are not significantly affected by company size or profitability in the case of American companies, but they vary significantly by company size in the case of Chinese companies. Our findings contribute to a systematic understanding of the genre features of MD&A narratives in ARs of Chinese and American companies and have useful implications for Business English pedagogy in the context of China.

The artist's statement is a unique genre that provides a written description of an artist's creative work. Usually produced by the artists themselves, the artist's statement accompanies exhibitions, funding applications, or more recently the work presented on an artist's website. In the educational context, it provides important support for the assessment of student work. In order to find out more about the artist's statement, this study provides a corpus-based analysis of the genre, focusing, in particular, on its characteristic rhetorical functions and associated lexical features. The study reveals five rhetorical functions; i) expressing identity, ii) conceptualising function, iii) specifying motivation, iv) identifying effect on the viewer, and v) identifying creative processes and materials, each of which is realised by a set of frequently occurring lexical items. However, rather than simply providing conduits for conveying information that describes the artist's work, these rhetorical and lexical features are identified as performing a constitutive role that brings the artist's work into being. The study concludes by examining the contents of 25  how to write an artist's statement  websites, and argues that their inability to accurately reflect what occurs in practice is a consequence of neglecting the genre's complex functionality and constitutive nature.

This paper investigates the academic writing challenges encountered by L2 postgraduate students in Engineering and the strategies they developed (or, from the perspective of faculty, should develop) to address these issues. Drawing on both quantitative and qualitative data gathered from 82 graduate students and 24 faculty in Engineering in three universities in Hong Kong, the study revealed similarities and differences related to topics previously identified in the literature. The study identified major differences between students and faculty regarding academic writing challenges. The primary concern of most L2 graduate students was challenges at the sentence level (i.e. local language features), whereas that of most faculty was challenges at the discourse level (i.e. global language features). The study also revealed that some student strategies for managing academic writing challenges (e.g. employing Google Translate) do not fully meet faculty expectations. These findings have significant pedagogical implications, for example, the need for providing appropriate writing models and writing interventions for L2 graduate students in Engineering.

Post-secondary students across the curriculum are commonly required to integrate source text material into their academic writing. While writing from multiple sources occurs frequently in higher education (Rosenfeld et al., 2001) and is a cognitively demanding task, few studies have investigated the types of source integration used by L1 and L2 writers entering post-secondary, first-year composition (Cumming et al., 2016). This study compares L1 and L2 in-class writing from multiple sources to quantitatively investigate similarities and differences in (1) use of various types of source integration (e.g., citations, paraphrases, direct quotes), and (2) use of ideational units. The writing was also analyzed qualitatively to follow up on select patterns from the quantitative findings. Results indicated that despite lower holistic writing quality scores, the L2 writing, in certain respects, demonstrated more responsible use of various types of source integration compared to L1 writing. The analysis also revealed very low frequencies of synthesis writing for both L1 and L2 writing. Finally, the findings are discussed as they relate to simplified versus elaborative integration of source material in student writing.

Previous research on comprehensive/focused written corrective feedback (WCF) has been dominated by the experimental/quasi-experimental tradition, with low ecological validity and limited pedagogical relevance, and without sufficiently recognizing the complex issues that influence teacher WCF practices in authentic classrooms. To fill this gap, this study adopts an ecological approach informed by a complexity perspective to investigate two secondary teachers  attempts at focused WCF in the Hong Kong EFL writing context. Data were gathered for one academic year from interviews with teachers and students, classroom observations, students  writing, as well as pre-and post-writing tests. The findings suggest that focused WCF is feasible in authentic classrooms when it is aligned with writing instruction and provided on preselected error types and selective errors based on individual students  needs, providing an impetus for teachers to strengthen their writing pedagogy and freeing them up to enhance feedback on other areas of student writing. The study points to the potential of focused, student-specific WCF in enhancing written accuracy as well as students  engagement with revision, and concludes with implications for the pedagogy of WCF in similar contexts.

Recently, scholars have begun to adopt metacognition theory as a lens for understanding how learners  genre awareness develops over time. However, many of such studies have tended to focus on contexts involving applied linguistics training programs or English for Academic Purposes rather than professional contexts where writers are learning non-academic genres. Adopting a longitudinal case study design, the researcher investigated this issue by following six L2 English students as they learned to write a professional legal genre called the office memorandum as a part of their legal education program. Using metacognition theory as a lens, the researcher examined the focal students  emerging metacognitive genre awareness, the domains in which they developed that awareness, and finally, how that awareness differed among individual students. Findings show that despite receiving the same classroom input, the students  acquisition of genre knowledge was non-linear, with some learners  developmental trajectories differing substantially both in terms of their reported awareness of the genre (i.e., metacognitive knowledge) and how they reported using that awareness when writing (i.e., metacognitive regulation). These findings are discussed in relation to future research and classroom pedagogy.

To explore factors that may affect learners  longitudinal developmental trajectories, we investigated whether L2 learners show divergent trajectories of second-language writing development at a group level when they iterate a narrative writing task procedure in class from the perspective of complex dynamic systems theory. One-hundred five university students who were learning English as a foreign language in Japan and spoke Japanese as a mother tongue performed a timed narrative-writing task procedure once a week over one academic year (30 times). A growth mixture model was used to identify three groups with different developmental patterns: stagnating, steadily increasing, and markedly increasing. A general growth mixture model was used to indicate that the three groups had different achievements not only in writing performance but also in the course grade. It was also revealed that the grouping was influenced by the type of reflecting the students did after writing a composition. These findings suggest that individuals orient and act on a task differently, resulting in divergent developmental trajectories even at the group level. The results also indicate that detailed, rather than simple and superficial, reflection on one s writing may promote learning through task iteration.

Few existing studies have reported on how group dynamics relate to online peer feedback interactions and subsequent revisions in second/foreign language writing, with no such investigation in telecollaborative contexts in which partners alternate between roles of reader/writer, native/non-native speaker, and expert/learner. This study explored the ways that dyadic functioning was associated with the functions of reader/writer comments and feedback focus produced during synchronous interactions among dyads of a Korean-U.S. telecollaborative project and subsequent uptake of feedback in revisions. Grounded in qualitative and discourse analytic methods, findings indicated that depending on dyadic functioning levels, telecollaborative partners performed different reader and writer roles and addressed different aspects of L2 writing. How partners responded to and incorporated peer feedback into their revisions varied systematically by level of dyadic functioning. The findings highlight the jointly-constructed nature of the online interaction and revision uptake and suggest that interpersonal dynamics may be of greater significance than previously suggested. The findings may also help explain the variety of learner experiences documented in previous peer interaction research and may provide insights into how writing and feedback activities can be designed for better outcomes in this context.

Although collaborative writing (CW) has become a common pedagogical practice in L2 classrooms, very few studies on CW have been conducted in the context of Chinese as a foreign language (CFL). This study examined students  perceptional and motivational changes during a 10-week CW project implemented in an intermediate CFL classroom. Data were triangulated from different sources including pre- and post-surveys on students  beliefs about CW, students  self-assessment of collaborative performance, and their reflective journals. The study found that students  perceptions of peer collaboration and personal collaborative behaviors remained stable through the progress of the CW project. However, their feelings towards the CW project revealed fluctuations insofar as they initially felt very positive and motivated to participate but became demotivated as the project progressed due to various factors such as time constraints, group incongruity, and linguistic challenges. They became re-motivated through a growing awareness of satisfying collaborative outcomes and gained a strong sense of achievement. They indicated that they were more confident and prepared to participate in future CW activities. Based on the findings of this study, pedagogical implications are addressed and suggestions are offered for implementing CW in CFL writing classrooms.

Lowie and Verspoor (2019) had an unexpected finding in their work Individual Differences and the Ergodicity Problem: The main predictor for proficiency gains in 22 beginning Dutch learners of English over one year was not traditional individual difference (ID) factors, but the degree of variability that occurred over time. We speculate that variability might stand for  investment  as students might strive for an excellent product at one time, but are not able to reach quite the same level the next time. The current paper sets out to see whether the findings can be replicated with a different population and finer-tuned measures. The English writing proficiency of 22 L1 Chinese adults at the university level was measured with 12 texts scored holistically over one academic year. The degree of variability in L2 writing was operationalized as the coefficient of variation (CoV), which was calculated as the standard deviation divided by the mean of the L2 writing holistic scores. ID factors measured were motivation, language aptitude, and working memory. The findings were as follows: None of the ID factors predicted the final L2 writing proficiency nor the L2 writing proficiency gains, but the CoV did. The implications of these findings are discussed.

Writing is a function of cognitive and linguistic resources and the writing processes. However, links between cognitive and linguistic resources and the writing process in second language (L2) writing are not well understood nor are their interactions with written products. This study examines the relationships among cognitive and linguistic resources (e.g., attention, working memory, L2 vocabulary knowledge, general knowledge, and L2 reading skills), writing processes (e.g., mean P-burst lengths [mean characters produced between pauses] and mean pause times), and written products (e.g., words per minute, text length, and text quality) in L2 writing. Participants were 100 L2 English learners in a US university. Path analyses showed that greater L2-literacy-related resources (vocabulary, reading, and general knowledge) were positively related to longer essays and high-rated essays. Findings also showed that greater attentional capacity and L2-literacy-related resources predicted shorter mean pause times, which in turn predicted longer essays and higher scoring essays. Furthermore, working memory had positive effects on L2-literacy-related resources, which in turn predicted longer and higher-rated essays. Lastly, P-burst length was related only to the number of words per minute. Overall, this study revealed more nuanced relationships among cognitive and linguistic resources, writing processes, and writing products in undergraduate L2 writing.

This study attempts to address the  teacher expertise gap  in L2 writing research, using  adaptive expertise  as a specific tool for understanding the notion of writing teacher expertise. Drawing upon language teacher education research and L2 writing research, and using teacher interviews and classroom observation as data sources, the study explores the expertise of three writing teachers from different schools in Hong Kong, as well as the factors that may have contributed to their expertise. The findings of the study show six key components of teacher expertise as demonstrated in the participating teachers, comprising integrated knowledge base about writing and teaching writing; student-centred pedagogy focusing on learner motivation and confidence building; professional visions, self-agency, and reflectivity; leadership in writing innovations; passion as teachers of writing and as writers; and ongoing teacher learning and progressive problem solving as pivotal to writing teacher expertise. The study suggests the rich, dynamic, and contextual nature of writing teacher expertise, which is influenced by teachers  cognitive engagements, social interactions, and affective experiences in their situated contexts. The paper concludes with implications for the teaching of writing and writing teacher education.

Informed by a reflective practice perspective on teacher learning, this study investigates the learning experiences of L2 writing teachers in providing feedback on students  writing. Drawing on multiple sources of data from 27 English writing teachers in Chinese universities, the study reveals that giving feedback on student writing can be a learning experience for most L2 writing teachers and challenges the mainstream discourse that portrays teachers  feedback-giving as a burdensome and unrewarding task. While some participants did not see the learning opportunities in giving teacher feedback due to their students  limited writing proficiency, large class size, and time constraints, the majority of teachers believed that giving feedback could improve their feedback literacy and feedback practices and enable teachers to: gain a better understanding of the students and their writing problems; improve their instructional approaches; enhance their own writing proficiency; and obtain knowledge in other disciplines, as well as identify topics for research on L2 writing. This study shows the potential of teacher learning in giving feedback and highlights that teacher learning takes place in social interaction, feedback practice, and teachers  self-reflection, thus contributing to research on L2 writing feedback.

Research in applied linguistics has shown the potential for language play to have a facilitative role in second language development, with numerous studies exploring how and why language learners play with language in and out of the classroom, as well as the effects of such play. Despite a growing acknowledgement of the value of play in language learning, it play has received little attention in second language writing. This paper explores the potential value of play in the context of academic second language writing, with a specific interest in its implications for instruction. I begin by defining play and its role in human behavior more generally and reviewing the more specific role of language play in second language development. I next turn to examining the potential value of play (including language play and genre play) in academic writing, drawing on relevant research. Finally, I consider how we might help create second language writing classrooms that foster opportunities for play, and I conclude with potential directions for future research.

The study aimed (a) to estimate the overall average effect size of the relationship between writing self-efficacy and writing achievement for first language (L1) and second language (L2) writers in English; and (b) to examine how writing in English as a L1/L2 moderates the relationships based on a meta-analysis of published journal articles and dissertations/theses. Data included 565 effect sizes from 76 studies through a rigorous process of literature searches, screening, and data coding. A two-level meta-regression model was constructed to estimate the average effect size and to examine the moderating effects of the covariates. Results revealed a medium effect size (r = .29) with both L1 and L2 writers, which indicated approximately 9% of the variability in English writing achievement was associated with variability in students  self-efficacy. Furthermore, writing in English as a L1/L2 was found to moderate the relationship between writing self-efficacy and writing achievement, with the effect size estimated with L2 learners (r = .441) being statistically significantly larger than that yielded with L1 learners (r = .233), after controlling for the covariates of sample size, gender, grade, statistical procedures, and publication type. Results also revealed that statistical procedure moderated effect size estimates. This meta-analysis has practical implications for heightening the awareness of English teachers in developing L2 students  self-efficacy in the writing classroom setting. It also cautions researchers against the misinterpretation and misuse of effect sizes calculated by different statistical procedures.

Fueled by a keen awareness of the affordances of technology and the predominance of the communicative approach, computer-mediated collaborative writing (CMCW) has gained fast-growing interest in second language (L2) contexts. To illuminate research foci and guide future research efforts in this burgeoning area, the current study provided a substantive and methodological review of 113 primary studies on CMCW in L2 contexts, covering qualitative, quantitative, and mixed-methods research. Each study was coded for substantive features, including research context, study setup, components analyzed, and the analytic frameworks. We also coded the sample for methodological practices that were applicable to all research (e.g., instrument development, reliability estimates) and those related to a specific research orientation (e.g., use of statistical analyses, validity strategies). The results indicated (a) a strong preference for meaning-focused writing tasks covering various genres, (b) considerable heterogeneity in the metrics for measuring texts, (c) limited interests in L2 learners  attention to form. While there was a strength in reporting certain strategies for enhancing research validity, the results revealed methodological concerns such as insufficient reporting of learner/context information, reliability estimates, effect sizes, and exact p values. Based upon the findings, we provided a number of empirically grounded suggestions for future research.

To further understand the role of individual differences in second language (L2) writing, this study investigated how motivation and emotions influence L2 writing achievement. More specifically, it examined how students  L2 writing future selves (i.e., ideal L2 writing self representing their aspirations, and ought L2 writing self representing their obligations) lead to qualitatively different emotions (anxiety and enjoyment), and how the future selves both directly and indirectly through anxiety and enjoyment affect L2 writing achievement. Questionnaire scales were developed using qualitative data to measure L2 writing selves. The new scales along with existing scales for examining L2 writing anxiety, joy, and motivation, were administered to 85 university students learning English as a Foreign Language (EFL) at a private university in Iran. Multiple regression results showed that the ideal L2 writing self positively predicted L2 writing joy, motivation, and achievement, whereas ought L2 writing self positively predicted L2 writing anxiety and motivation; L2 writing joy and anxiety both predicted L2 writing motivation positively; L2 writing anxiety predicted L2 writing achievement negatively but L2 joy did not. Overall, the findings highlight the qualitative differences in students  motivation and emotions in L2 writing achievement.

This study investigated whether the effects of working memory on second language (L2) writing performance depend upon the level of L2 proficiency. Fifty-six learners of L2 English at different levels of proficiency performed a complex working memory task in their native language (Spanish/Catalan), a standardized L2 proficiency test, and a narrative L2 writing task. L2 writing performance was assessed by means of the quantitative measures of accuracy, complexity, and fluency, and by means of holistic ratings of writing quality. The results showed that at low levels of proficiency, working memory was associated with higher accuracy, while at high levels of proficiency, there was a positive link between working memory and lexical sophistication. Our findings demonstrate a differential and nuanced involvement of working memory on L2 writing performance.

This study explores two writing task variables (genre and idea support) that have been extensively employed in L2 writing research. It specifically examines L2 learners  perceptions and production of the narrative and argumentative tasks within which the condition of idea support is manipulated. Seventy-six ESL learners participated in this study (each wrote four essays), and they completed a self-rating task questionnaire immediately after each writing performance. Their essays were analyzed using 12 syntactic and lexical complexity measures. Results showed that the learners perceived the two genres as inducing similar cognitive demands, while judging the writing tasks with idea support as less cognitively demanding. In contrast, the learners  use of syntactic structures differed widely across the two genres, but not across the idea support conditions. These findings suggest that there may be a weak connection between cognitive task complexity and linguistic complexity in written discourse and that syntactic features in learner essays are linguistic means to express genre-specific communicative functions. This study offers implications for L2 writing research and pedagogy.

With a premium placed on academic writing in the U.S. secondary education context, adolescent L2 students are expected to develop advanced skills to analyze, interpret, and produce complex texts in a variety of content areas, which require proficiency in academic language. To enhance the academic literacy of developing L2 writers and to meet their linguistic needs, it is crucial to identify the unique language features of their academic writing. This study seeks to examine syntactic and lexical features of the text-based analytical essays written by Spanish-speaking L2 students (7th 12th grades) from a public school in a western state of the United States. Employing manual sentence coding and quantitative measures of selected linguistic variables from Coh- Metrix, we analyzed student texts (N = 86) to identify common linguistic patterns and to examine how these linguistic features predict writing quality. Our findings reveal that sentence boundary issues, lack of syntactic variety, the underuse of sophisticated subordination to show connections between ideas, and low use of advanced vocabulary are common in adolescent L2 students  writing. The results of regression analyses show that syntactic complexity and lexical sophistication predict human-judged writing quality. Implications for pedagogy to address the linguistic needs of adolescent L2 students are discussed.

Technology enables multiple modalities (e.g., audio, video, and text) for providing feedback on students  writing. As interest in technology-mediated feedback grows, it is important to consider how different modalities can impact instructors  evaluative language choices. These choices can influence student emotions and student-instructor relationships. Thus, a better understanding of language use across feedback modes can provide insight into how interpersonal considerations can be negotiated in feedback. In this study, we explore how video and text impact language choices in the formative feedback of three instructors in US university ESL writing courses. Feedback on 136 essays was analyzed using the appraisal framework, with a focus on attitude. This analysis provides a nuanced, linguistically grounded understanding and description of how evaluation is conveyed, while highlighting the social or interpersonal aspects of language within the communicative context of responding to student writing. Text feedback was found to be more negative, while video offered more balance and showed greater concern for social relationships in the feedback process. Finer grain analysis suggested that instructors may engage with students differently across feedback modes, prompting future possibilities for instructor training.

Informed by a learner-centered and socio-constructive approach to the impact of feedback and drawing upon critical incidents from 1,075 Chinese EFL university students and semi-structured interviews with 29 of them, the present study aims to reveal the negative side of feedback by examining its negative influences on L2 student writers and their responses to such influences. Findings reveal seven feedback attributes that could elicit negative impacts on writers: lack of specification, low quality, superficial feedback, unclear feedback criteria, inconsistent feedback, one-way communication, and unclosed loop. Feedback of these attributes could negatively impact students  writing practices, learning emotions and motivation, and social relationships. This study has also found that in response to such negative influences, students would pay selective attention to feedback, accept/reject all the feedback, or seek external help. Based on the findings, a multi-dimensional model concerning the negative side of feedback is proposed, and how writing teachers could alleviate the negative impact of feedback is discussed.

The benefits of collaborative writing (CW) for second language (L2) learning rest on solid theoretical underpinnings. Unequivocal empirical evidence of those benefits has proven difficult, however. This meta-analysis examines the accumulated evidence by synthesizing the results of 33 studies that explored the learning effects of CW and by gauging the magnitude of the difference between collaborative and individual writing. The characteristics and research practices of these product-oriented CW studies were also synthesized. Across studies, the effects of CW have been assessed through complexity, accuracy, and fluency (CAF) measures as well as rubric scores and grammar/vocabulary tests. The accumulated findings suggest that collaboratively written texts were more accurate than individually written texts, with a mean effect size of a medium magnitude (g=0.73). Further, a large magnitude difference in rubric scores (g=0.94) was found in favor of individual texts written after experimental CW conditions compared to those written after control individual writing conditions. Findings regarding other dependent variables were inconclusive because of insufficient accumulation and excessive variability across individual studies. Methodological and pedagogical implications are discussed.

Academic writing expertise, we argue, is acquired through long practice and by the mentoring of significant others in a socialisation process which resembles an  apprenticeship . The way that feedback provided to novice writers by community-sanctioned experts can scaffold research writers  development of texts and their scholarly identities as writers, which, however, has been relatively little studied. In this paper, we examine the interactions around two L2 writers  engagements with PhD thesis and research article writing at an English medium university. Focusing on the literature review of these genres, we use thematic and intertextual analyses to explore interconnections between apprenticeship patterns, feedback messages, and expertise acquisition. The analyses present feedback as an apprenticeship: a multi-dimensional scaffolding and an interconnected mentorship oriented towards the process of learning and the nurturing of a writerly self.